From hart at pglaf.org  Tue Aug 30 08:31:47 2005
From: hart at pglaf.org (Michael Hart)
Date: Tue Aug 30 08:31:49 2005
Subject: [gweekly] Ooops!!!  Resending Thanks!!! 
Message-ID: <Pine.LNX.4.60.0508300831030.31093@pglaf.org>



Sorry, I sent the wrong file, my most sincere apologies!

Here is the right one:

***


Here are a few of the thank you notes we have received for you
over the past six months or so:



This is just a short note to personally say
Thank you" for the Gutenberg project.


Let me thank you for making Project Gutenberg a reality.
I've enjoyed it for many years.


". . .just downloaded [Aristotle's `Ethics.'  Again, thank
you much for all the work that has gone into your site."


Thank you for Project Gutenberg which is really an amazing resource.


Project Gutenberg is one of the most incredible things I've ever seen.
Thanks to all of the volunteers, for this great service to humanity.



Subject: Just a 'Thank You' for Gutenberg...

Hello!
The Subject Line says it all...

Just a 'Thank You' from someone who (if it wasn't for this project)
would never have read a Shakespeare Sonnet.


I'm fairly certain I would never have solved the mystery without your
"Project Gutenberg" publication. I still have no idea what I'm going to
do with this old book, but finding out its "story" has been fascinating.




I'm incredibly grateful for your vision and for PG,
and I'm an active and prolific contributor to PG
through Distributed Proofreaders.


Good day to you and to all those that are out there making
sure some of us, especially me, benefit from Project Gutenburg.
[from Nigeria]


I hope that this donation will help your work.
Many thanks for your site - it is a treat and
I am very pleased to have found it.


Thank you so much for your work. This is so great.


THANK YOU for all the efforts you've poured in, and all the
sacrifices you've made in making Project Gutenberg a reality.


I truly admire the accomplishments and goals of Project Gutenberg.


Thank you. It's very difficult to have books sent to where I am.
I'm grateful to be able to access them on the website!  [From Iraq]


Thanks for Gutenberg!


Keep up your heroic effort!


You are my heroes.  Thank you for all you have accomplished!


It is a great pleasure for me to share all the Best of Gutenberg (with its
unidentified "errors") with my family, friends and associates.  I use the
CDs as my business cards to spread the word about great literature.


I have just down loaded some books from the *here goes,*
Gutenburg section of the online access for we the blind.
Now I'm looking around to see if I can find these very
interesting books of which I will thouroughly enjoy I expect.
Again, much thanks.

At any rate I have signed up to be a proofreader and
commend you for the giant you have all created.

[Funny, _I_ always thought of PG as tilting at the
giants out there.]


Please allow me to add my own thanks to this list,


Michael S. Hart
Founder
Project Gutenberg

