From - Wed May 16 22:32:09 2001
Date: Wed, 16 May 2001 11:21:22 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Michael S. Hart" <hart@prairienet.org>
To: "Project Gutenberg mailing list" <gutnberg@listserv.unc.edu>
Subject: "Project Gutenberg Needs You!"
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
List-Subscribe: <mailto:subscribe-gutnberg@listserv.unc.edu>
List-Owner: <mailto:owner-gutnberg@listserv.unc.edu>
X-List-Host: The UNC List Server 
X-Message-Id: <Pine.GSO.4.10.10105161119490.16668-100000@bluestem.prairienet.org>


Please Be Encouraged To Resend And Repost This Announcement

Be sure all addresses are bcc'd

***

***Project Gutenberg Request for Support for May 16, 2001***

[This is a blatant request for support for Project Gutenberg
Please delete it and accept our apology if not interested!!]

[We only send such messages once each Spring and/or Autumn.]
[We put this off from April 15, so we could include several
new state registrations and further information on the rest]

Lot's of important news for those who read all the way thru.

       We Have Made It Much Easier To Volunteer

         http://promo.net/pg/volunteer.html


   We Have Made It Much Easier To Donate [More Below]



Right now we are in a sort of "Catch-22" situation with
fundraising right now. . .we are registered in about 1/3
of the states right now, with paperwork in to get to 2/3,
but we don't have enough money to register in the last 1/3,
and the first 1/3 will start needing to be renewed by the
time we get to the last 1/3. . .and the stack of paperwork
for these is literally as large as the person handling them.

The trustees of the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
have told me we need to raise $25,000 just to complete all this
paperwork, as there are lots of fees associated with theses, and
we have to hire a CPA to sign the last bunch. . .obviously we did
the easiest and least expensive states first.

Neither of our trustees have the time to do all this by themselves,
so we also have to pay for a 1/4 time assistant, even though our
trustees do serve pro bono.

We can't get on shows such as Oprah, Regis, Letterman and Leno
to do any demonstrations and fundraising until we are registered
in all 50 states, and probably also the District of Columbia, so
it's even more of a Catch-22 than it first appears. . . .

We are expecting to have approximately 4,000 Etexts online by the
end of the year, with nearly 2,000 volunteers whom we would like
to provide more support for in the areas of copyright research,
book finding, scanning, proofreading, etc.  Currently every one
of the Project Gutenberg sites around the world is operated by
a volunteer who provides all the disk space, bandwidth, etc.,
and we would love to buy our own drives for at least the two
major US sites on which we initially post our Etexts.


***

As of 05/16/01 contributions are only being solicited from people in:
Connecticut, Louisiana, Maine, Missouri, Oklahoma, Colorado,
Delaware, Hawaii, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Montana, Nebraska,
South Dakota, Texas, Vermont, Wyoming, South Carolina. = 18 states

We have completed filing in the following states, awaiting response:
Alabama, Arkansas, California, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky,
Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, New Hampshire,
New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, Washington,
Wisconsin and the District of Columbia.

We are partially filed in Maryland, they wanted more information.

The last 5 states have such incredible paperwork that we haven't
quite been able to do it all yet. . .sorry. . . .
Alaska, Arizona, Florida, North Carolina, West Virginia.

In answer to various questions we have received on this:

We are constantly working on finishing the paperwork
to legally request donations in all 50 states.  If
your state is not listed and you would like to know
if we have added it since the list you have, just ask.

While we cannot solicit donations from people in
states where we are not yet registered, we know
of no prohibition against accepting donations
from donors in these states who approach us with
an offer to donate.

***

Why Should *YOU* Support Project Gutenberg?

Because The Work of Project Gutenberg is:

1.  Permanent
2.  Free
3.  Available
4.  Useful
5.  Enlightening
6.  Growing

and, best of all

7.  Yours!


First a few lines of comment on each of these topics,
then a more detailed explanation.


1.  Permanent

Unlike the usual character of the Internet and the World Wide Web,
television and radio, or most other modern media production outlets,
Project Gutenberg is a landmark. . .a permanent feature of the Net
. . .since before anyone had coined the term "Internet". . .since
before the World Wide Web. . .and we are now supported by a Trust/
Foundation which will hopefully help continue the existence of PG
for more decades, or even centuries into the future.


2.  Free

There are no hidden costs to use Project Gutenberg, no hardware
or software requirements. . .nearly every computer comes with a
variety of ways to receive, save, read and search our Etexts.


3.  Available

There are mirror sites wide varieties of regions, including
every continent in the world, even Antarctica. . .to insure
everyone has easy access.  Within the last month or two, new
sites have been announced in Greece, Bulgaria, and Hungary.
Contrary to the policies of most Etext operations, Project
Gutenberg encourages EVERYONE to download our Etexts and to
make them available to the public at large. . .worldwide,
with only a few words of warning not to violate local laws
concerning various copyrighted or trademarked materials we
include in our collection.


4.  Useful

Students and scholars all over the world use Project Gutenberg
Etexts to search, research, and just plain read for fun.  As a
wider variety of screens become available, with an increasing
number of colors, more and more people are reading full books
on their computers, laptops, and palmtops.  In addition, Project
Gutenberg Etexts are wonderfully flexible for visually impaired
readers, and are easily readable by the text-to-speech software
used by many who cannot read at all.  More and more libraries
are now including Project Gutenberg Etexts in their collections.


5.  Enlightening

We are making a great effort to include every language we can
in our collection, and are hoping to include the classic books
from every culture within each language.  Project Gutenberg is
hoping to indeed be "A Window On The World."  We are hoping to
add a new language every month or two in 2001, please made sure
we have something in YOUR language[s].


6.  Growing

Project Gutenberg is now producing 50 Etexts/month, 600/year. . .
It was only 5 years ago that we managed our first 100 Etext year,
and in a few years, with your support, we hope to do 1,000 Etexts
in a calendar year.

We used to talk about Project Gutenberg as a kind of "book of the
month" production system. . .but now you would have to buy whole
new bookshelves each and every month to hold them all the paper
editions we present. . .or just add one new CDROM. . .hee hee!!!


7.  Yours

These books are yours, permanently. . . .

When you get a Project Gutenberg Etext, you have not checked it out,
licenced it, rented it, borrowed it, or any other temporary idiom.
You can quote them in any way you like, school papers, research,
books YOU may write. . .without limitation, other than on the 1%
of the that are copyrighted works.

These books are YOURS. . .as many copies as you want. . .any time you
want. . .any place you want. . .and they don't take up any space. . .
it's *literally* any *place* you want.

As a volunteer, these books are even more intimately yours, as we try
very hard to encourage our volunteers to do their own favorite books,
in their own languages, in their own good time. . .we don't put anyone
on a schedule. . . .


Here are the details. . . .


1.  The Work of Project Gutenberg is Permanent.

The major difference between the products of Project Gutenberg
and those of other non-profit organizations such as PBS, NPR, etc.,
is that even now it it's 30th year, our original Etext of the U. S.
Declaration of Independence is downloaded by more people every year
than in any previous year of the history of the Internet.  When you
support Project Gutenberg, your support is seen permanently.  It is
not like a museum or library, you won't come for a visit and NOT see
your effect right there for everyone to see and have. . . .

You won't find PBS showing all their shows from 30 years ago. . .
but the Project Gutenberg Etexts are there forever.  We update format
types from time to time, and correct errors, but when your family
reads Alice in Wonderland now, we want you to know you will be able
to find it again generations down the road.  We already have people
getting married and starting families of their own, who read Alice
from Project Gutenberg when they weren't even teenagers yet. . . .

This is quite different from the way most Internet sites exist as a
day to day phenomenon, whereas we are planning on Project Gutenberg
Etexts being available as long as there IS an Internet.

When you buy CDROMs of most Etexts you get something that requires a
certain operating system, and even a certain version of it, usually
one that likely will be incompatible with the next version or the one
after that. . .and then you have to go out and buy another version.
That's where the big difference lies between Project Gutenberg Etext
and nearly every other kind you can get. . .you can still copy books
from Project Gutenberg onto your floppies, carry them to nearly any
computer, and read them with minimal effort, no installation needed.


2.  The Work of Project Gutenberg is Free.

Because no installation is needed, these Etexts ARE free. . .there is
no particular brand of hardware or software you need to buy to read a
Project Gutenberg Etext. . .you don't even have to download a browser
. . .whether it is free or not. . . .  Virtually every computer there
is in the world can read these Etexts just the way it comes, and that
is the point of our existence. . . .

We want EVERYONE, EVERYWHERE, EVERYWHEN to have free access to such a
library of classics in EVERY LANGUAGE.

Thousands of Project Gutenberg Etexts are available, and no one is ever
charged a penny by Project Gutenberg for them.  All the Etexts are done
by volunteers.  All the sites are run by volunteers.


3.  The Work of Project Gutenberg is Available.

The Project Gutenberg Etexts are available from servers on all continents.
We are continually expanding the number of servers, and eventually hope to
have servers not just on every continent, but in every region, and then in
every country.  We are now working on sites in Greece, Turkey, Bulgaria,
and several others.  With 3 billion computers already around the world,
and used ones available at garage sales for $5, pretty much anyone who
really wants to read Etexts and has electricity can do it.  I should add
that we are aware that 60% of the world's population has never made a
phone call. . .which is one reason we promote the giving away of our
Etexts on disks. . .we were receiving letters from around the world
from people who had received our Etexts on disk years before the Internet
actually circled the globe.

Our Etexts are actually available for download from several satellites.


4.  The Work of Project Gutenberg is Useful.

Looking up something in any of our books takes less time that it would to
walk over to your own bookcase and find it in your own book.  Quoting the
material is even faster.  The Complete Works of Shakespeare could be used
for a search that would take literally seconds.  We also have very complete
editions of Charles Dickens and Robert Louis Stevenson, so complete that
they have been listed in library journals as the most complete available
to the public in the entire world.  [I don't know if there are privately
owned collections that have more.  But the whole point is that anyone can
add our entire collection to theirs with no effort.]

We make our Etexts available in plain formats that virtually all programs
can read, quote, edit, search, etc.  Thus our readers use a wider variety
of computers and programs, at their own discretion, and budget, to read a
wide variety of Etexts.  This is a very important aspect of our work. . .
to make Etext available to everyone. . .and to let them read it in their
own favorite programs, in their own favorite fonts, to search with their
own favorite search engines, and to copy anywhere, any time.


5.  The Work of Project Gutenberg is Enlightening.

My hope is that the work of Project Gutenberg will finally allow access
to the information and literature of the entire world to the entire world.

"Of The People, By The People, For The People". . .says it pretty well.

Hopefully you will include yourself as one of "These People."


6.  Project Gutenberg Is Growing

We are officially producing 50 Etexts per month at this time,
and unofficially we are producing even more.  Last year we averaged
about 75 per month for the second half of the year, and we are doing
the same this year.  At this rate, we will soon cross the boundary
of 1,000 Etexts produced in a single year.

Not only is Project Gutenberg growing, but our audience is growing
as well, and even more quickly.  Our Sites Coordinator just told me
that half the people reading our books are new over the past 18 months.
This is not uncommon among brand new enterprises, but when you realize
this is our 30th year, such growth is truly. . .no hyperbole. . . . .

PHENOMENAL!


Here is a brief history of our growth rate:

We should reach approximately 3,000 Etexts by the official end of 2001,
but since we are about a year ahead of schedule, this will likely take
place in the next few months.  [hee hee, when I started writing this a
month ago, I had no idea I might be announcing #3000 in THIS message!!!]

Here is how we got there:

1 per year in 1971-1979 completed our first 9 Etexts
which were mostly a "History of Western Democracy"

>From 1980-1990 we completed our first Bible and Shakespeare,
but due to the new copyright extensions, the Shakespeare is
still not able to be released.  Thus our total was 10 Etexts.
[We counted Shakespeare and The Bible as 1 Etext each.]

 1  per month in 1991
 2  per month in 1992
 4  per month in 1993
 8  per month in 1994 We reached a total of 100 Etexts
16  per month in 1995
32  per month in 1996
32  per month in 1997 We reached a total of 1,000 Etexts
36  per month in 1998
36  per month in 1999 We reached a total of 2,000 Etexts
36  per month in 2000
40  per month in 2001 for the first half of the year
then
50  per month in 2001 for the second half of the year
                      We reached a total of 3,000 Etext
                      with the last of the 2001 Etexts.
50  per month in 2002
100 per month in 2003 Should bring us back to schedule

We will end the "Official Year of 2002" with 3,600 Etexts!!!
This should happen on July 4, 2001, we are that far ahead of
this schedule. . . .


[Now that we can officially say we have "thousands" of these
Etexts online, we should prepare to create an institution of
support for Project Gutenberg that will hopefully carry this
project into, and at least part of the way through, the next
millennium. . .your help could be invaluable. . .more below]

We Have Made It Much Easier To Volunteer, see promo.net/pg!!

[There is a brand new set of web pages for our volunteers so
please help us with any suggestions and/or corrections, your
help in making this page serve our volunteers is appreciated
more than you might imagine. . .this page could become a big
foundation for our future volunteers; we are ALL volunteers]

***

Have We Given Away A Trillion Dollars Worth Of Etext Yet??!!

Yes, if we manage to get the average one of our 3,500 Etexts
to 1.67% of the world's population, using a nominal value of
$2.86 as a street value of the average one of our books:  as
our population has passed 6 billion around the official date
of release of our Etext #2000.  In fact, we are ~all the way
from using the $5 nominal value, thru the $4 value, that was
the result of our posting Etext #2500. . .and then we passed
$3 mark at Etext #3333 as it takes an ever increasing number
to bring the cost down another dollar
. . .this time it will take 833 more Etexts. . .last time it
only took 500 more. . .next time it will take 1666 to get it
from $3 to $2. . .and then 5000 more to get nominal price of
a book down to $1 and still give away $1 trillion in Etexts.

OK. . .enough math. . .!!!

;-)

***

The major purpose of Project Gutenberg is to encourage great
and small efforts towards the creation and distribution of a
library of Etexts for unlimited distribution worldwide.  Our
goal is to encourage the creation and distribution of 10,000
Etexts by the end of 2001. . .obviously we have to revise it
some time this year. . .as we will perhaps get to #4000.

This is a goal we may have already accomplished, though many
of the 10,000 files are still very much Limited Distribution
items, and we are working to get them posted in more places,
on more sites, for greater and greater public access.  These
will hopefully all be posted on Project Gutenberg sites some
time in the not too distant future, we are discussing this a
lot with the other Etext makers.  Creating a liaison between
all the Etexts makers is one of our major goals right now.

There are currently over 16,000 Etexts listed in the indices
of the Internet Public Library, and, as usually, between 20-
25% of them are from Project Gutenberg.  We are growing just
as fast as the total Etext production of the world, but this
could be accelerated quite a bit if we could do copyright on
more of the Etexts out there of "unknown origin."  We should
raise money to hire a copyright lawyer for this!


***

If we are going to continue on past our first goal of 10,000 Etexts,
we are going to need some Big Time public relations help, and some
Big Time fundraising. . .here's why. . . .

1.  Getting the Etexts to twice as many people is just as important
as creating twice as many Etexts. . .but without MAJOR publicity it
is not likely to happen. . .we constantly get messages from readers
who tell us they have been LOOKING for Etexts for years and just at
that present time FINALLY FOUND US. . . .  That means we cannot get
to a major part of our audience with the kind of publicity we have,
we need something more. . . .  For example, we were the first in an
entirely new column:  "People To Watch" in the November 8th edition
of TIME magazine, but we have received less than a dozen emails per
that article. . .what we really need to do is get on Oprah Winfrey,
and hopefully add something to her book club.  Those of you on AOL,
perhaps you could email the show and request they invite us. . . !

We should undoubtedly also try the other talk shows, and "magazine"
shows, etc.  All the press we receive is from them contacting us, I
have had no luck "generating" publicity. . .which seems to be easy,
for those who have the knack. . .it's just not MY knack. . .help!!!

2.  Running group of 1,500 volunteers to generate 10,000 Etexts has
been something that IS a knack I have. . .and it hasn't cost a very
large amount of money to do it. . .otherwise you wouldn't know that
we exist. . .but running a group of 10,000 volunteers to create the
1,000,000 Etext that are possible in the NEXT 10 years, is NOT easy
. . .even for someone such as myself. . .it will require more phone
lines and calls than I can afford. . .and more email than I can do,
on my own, so we either need volunteers to help coordinate, or, the
possibility looms that we should actually HIRE people. . . .

When I first started Project Gutenberg in 1971, I was sure I should
be able to find someone else to replace me, as it did not cost real
money or take real time to run. . .but for the last 10 years it has
taken just about all the time I have, including what I would need a
lot more of to have a personal life. . .and I would LIKE to have an
expectation that Project Gutenberg would survive at least 10 years,
after I am gone, and hopefully 100, and if I really dream, 1,000!!!

So. . .if you are willing and able to help us with these or in some
related manner, PLEASE LET ME KNOW. . . .


***


Contents


Overview

0.
Etexts in Various Languages

1.
Copyright

2.
Scanning and Typing

3.
Proofreading

4.
FTP and WWW Sites

5.
Donations

6.
Raiders of the Lost Archives

7.
Special Requests

8.
Programming

9.
New Etexts Needing Proofreading



Followed By More Detailed Information On Most Of These Subjects


*******

0.
Etexts in Various Languages

As you may be aware, this last year we have greatly expanded our
output of Etexts in languages other than English, including:


1.  English
2.  Latin
3.  French
4.  Italian
5.  German
6.  Spanish
7.  Chinese
8.  Japanese
9.  Swedish
10. Danish
11. DNA/ATGC
12. Welsh
13. Portuguese
14. Old Dutch [pre 1949]
15. Bulgarian
16. Dutch/Flemish
17. Greek*  Almost ready!
18. Hebrew*
19. Old French*
20. Polish*
21  Russian*
22. Romanian*
[Those with an * are still in need of work]



1.
Copyright

Project Gutenberg will do copyright research for you if you send us
xeroxes of the title page [both sides, even if one side is blank.]

We need people to hunt through libraries or bookstores for editions
that we can use to legally prepare our Electronic Texts [Etexts.]

Germany, Italy and Great Britain have each extended their copyright
to "life + 70 years," as opposed to the "life +50 years" of "Berne"
copyright conventions.  Residents of those areas will have to be an
extra bit careful, as a million items that used to be Public Domain
in those countries reverted to copyright status, even though a vast
majority of them are no longer for sale.  This is now true for some
other countries, including France and perhaps Brazil and Portugal.

More on the United States Copyright Term Extension Act of 1998 in a
"More Detailed Information" section below.


2.
Scanning and Typing

Once we have located some proper edition[s], then our volunteers do
the books by scanning or typing them into the computer.  Usually it
is the same person who does the proofreading, but not necessarily.


If you have a scanner, or have access to one, or plan to get one in
the future, please contact our Director of Production, Dianne Bean,
beandp@primenet.com, with a cc: to me at hart@pobox.com


2.
Proofreading

Often the only way for many of our volunteers to work on Etexts for
us is if they can ship their book to one of you, have it scanned in
and then returned to them for proofreading.

If you could do the scanning for them, it would help us immensely.


4.
FTP and WWW Sites

We would very much like to provide better access to Etext for sites
in Africa and South America, and other locales.  If you know anyone
who might be able to help with this, please read this:

We are always in search of more FTP and World Wide Web sites, so an
increasing number of people can download our books without unusual,
even often fatal, delays and glitches in transmission.

If you, or someone you know, can spare a gigabyte on their servers,
please have them contact us about creating more mirror sites.  This
is a particular need for countries south of the equator, where text
files are only available on one server that we know of.  If you can
help us get our books into South America, Africa, and further, this
would be a great help.  We have something restarted in New Zealand,
with extensions into Australia, but the load this server can handle
is probably going to be easily exhausted.


5.
Donations

Project Gutenberg is almost completely dependent on your donations.

Presently, contributions are only being solicited from people in:
Texas, Nevada, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, South Dakota,
Iowa, Indiana, and Vermont. As the requirements for other states
are met, additions to this list will be made and fund raising will
begin in the additional states. These donations should be made to
the "Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation" and mailed to:

Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
PMB 113
1739 University Ave.
Oxford, MS 38655-4109


Anything you can do in this are would be greatly appreciated, even,
since we are at this juncture, helping us get more Public Relations
coverage of our 4,000th Etext.

Project Gutenberg sites up updated more than once a day on average,
since we are presenting 600 Etexts per year, and plan to move to at
least 1,000 per year after the "official" listing of 2002.

As I said, anything would be greatly appreciated.  This SHOULD BE a
great time to get some PR. . .but it still appears, even though the
project has been written up probably about 200 times, that they are
going to write us up when THEY have a reason to rather than when WE
have a reason, and we feel it is now time to try to break out of an
entirely too limiting niche in the computer oriented media, and get
some more general publicity out there to the millions of people who
aren't computer oriented at all, but will would like to receive the
Etexts for education or entertainment.  This is a majority of world
population centers, and we should do more to reach them.

If you have any "ins" in the press or with the corporate world, this
would be a good time to use them.


6.
Raiders of the Lost Archives

As you may be aware from several events of a month ago, and earlier,
there is a downside to having Etext archives in limited distribution
modalities, simply because if one site, or one person, or even whole
countries, change their minds about what they are going to archive--
then the whole world loses access to those files.

A good example was the loss of The Oxford Book of English Verse from
Project Bartleby.  We have taken great pains to get this book, which
is undoubtedly important, back on the Net.  If you want to see which
sites have lost this file, just do a Yahoo search for the book, then
count the vast number of sites that have blank entries for the book,
once it was deleted from a multiplicity of links; this is an example
of how important it is for Etexts to be posted on many sites, rather
than just one site will many links to it!!!

We need volunteers who will search the world for every possible book
and help us preserve it.

Project Gutenberg will not release any of this material until we can
do the copyright research and prove it belongs in the Public Domain.

We realize that many of our volunteers sometimes get frustrated that
we do this research, which possibly takes half our time, but it will
become more and more apparent why this is a good policy as copyright
laws become stiffer and stiffer, and world intellectual property can
be limited in greater and great ways.  It is quite likely that it is
going to be some time in the next calendar year that a United States
law killing off another 20 years of public domain in the US will get
passed, to join the countries listed above, in eliminating a million
books from potentially being posted as Etexts, even though 99% are a
dead issue, out of print for decades. . . .


7.
Special Requests

We occasionally receive scanned material which could have benefitted from
more cleanup before it was sent to us. What we need is proofers with
patience to read through an etext and take out stray letters, clean up the
punctuation, and send a list of questionable lines to the person who
scanned it so they can send corrections to be inserted. This usually takes
a couple of weeks, and is a good short-term project for folks who want to
get their feet wet with Project Gutenberg.  Dianne Bean <beandp@primenet.com>


8.
Programming

Due to the various formats in which we receive many of our Etexts,
we need some assistance in writing PERL scripts, vi scripts, or an
assortment of other scripts that will assist our proofreaders, and
our editors, in dealing with page numbers, markups, italics and an
assortment of other formatting issue that come up time to time.

Most of these are fairly trivial and can be solved with a one line
script for each of the particular situations and we just need some
people to either run the scripts we already have, or to write some
new ones from time to time when a particularly rough Etext version
arrives at our doorstep.  These scripts, which take minutes to set
up, and seconds to run, can save HOURS of proofreaders' time.  You
can be a BIG help just running some of these scripts for us, or in
writing or rewriting some of them on occasion.



***


More Detailed Information

1.
Copyright

Copyright Extension Is Also Happening in the United States

Since Project Gutenberg began in 1971, millions of copyrights in
the US should have expired, but are being prevented from expiring
by various political action groups.



2.
Scanning and Typing

We don't really want to get into a public recommendation about what
scanners and OCR [Optical Character Recognition] programs word best
. . .it is really the case that some do better on some books, while
other do better on others.

However, we ARE willing to share our experience if you ask.


3.
Proofreading

Our official accuracy level that we try to maintain has been 99.9%,
for our first release, which is usually raised to 99.95% before the
vast majority of people ever see them, and this standard has been a
standard that has been adopted by most Etext providers, including a
new effort toward Etext by the Library of Congress and the national
libraries of Great Britain and other countries.

What we hope you realize is that any serious effort to get an Etext
to 100% accuracy should take MORE effort than to create an entirely
new Etext with an accuracy level of 99.9% to 99.95%.

While many, even most, of the Project Gutenberg Etexts are accurate
to an amazing degree, even more amazing when you compare then to an
entire world of Etexts prepared by both the scholarly or commercial
Etext enterprises, we do not feel that the additional doubling of a
more than massive effort, to possibly reduce the errors, by another
.02% perhaps, would have anywhere near the value of the preparation
of an entirely new Etext with the same amount of effort.

Nevertheless, even the most famous universities of the world have a
collection of Etexts, many of which have vastly more errors that in
our collection.  This is also true of the commercial Etexts.  Don't
be afraid that your efforts won't be as good as all the others, the
process of improving Project Gutenberg Etexts is never ending.

In addition, there are many volunteers who would prefer to have an
Etext or at least an author selected for them to work on.  As some
of you already know, _I_ have been reluctant to choose for anyone,
not wanting to bias the formation of our collection with my choice
of what are the great books of human history.

I have promised to do several things once we reached Etext #2,000,
one of which is to provide more guidance to those who seek it, and
that guidance will be coming from Dianne Bean, true librarian, who
is also working on the cataloguing project I also promised will be
forthcoming once we reach Etext #2,000.


More on:
Proofreading:  We could also use people who know how to use DIFF or
similar programs that point out differences between two files, even
programmers that might only be able to search our files for matched
and unmatched quotes.  [Remember that when quoting many paragraphs,
each internal paragraph gets only an opening quote.]

Our proofreading is a never-ending story. . .we run spell-checkers,
and other varieties of programs, on our Etexts, and have real human
proofreaders go over them in pretty incredible detail, but we would
be remiss if we did not tell you that over 99% of the books we work
from have their own errors, and that while we catch some of those--
we undoubtedly introduce errors of our own, and even though we will
gladly keep updating our editions, ad infinitum, the odds that this
will catch ALL the errors in the near future are virtually 0%.

Therefore. . .we need you to email us when you have suggestion, and
comments, and when you find possible errors that need correction.


4.
FTP and WWW Sites

We are willing to adjust the bandwidth on various sites by adjusting
the publicity various sites receive, and also by asking our users to
only use certain sites at certain times of the day or night.  So the
drain on sites volunteering to mirror Etexts should not suffer any.


5.
Donations

We have never received any local, regional or national grants; your
donations, and the support of people I would hope to count as my
friends are the backbone of our support.

We could barely survive otherwise.


6.
Raiders of the Lost Archives  [This needs a rewrite]

This is going to be particularly evident if the raggedy performances
that are destroying 99% of the Public Domain continue by raiding the
Public Domain, taking a million works out of the Public Domain, over
a period of 20 years, and putting perhaps 1% of 1% of them back in a
print version so that those who owned the copyrights for the past 75
years and made millions from them, can make another million per year
while 99.99% of those works disappear from public access altogether.

*

Hopefully it has been worth your while to read this far. . .and you will take
a moment to consider making a tax-deductible donation to Project Gutenberg as
we are, as once before, without any financial income, including myself. . .mh


If you would like to volunteer, please contact one of our Directors:

Greg Newby <gbnewby@ils.unc.edu>,  United States
Dianne Bean <beandp@primenet.com>  United States
John Bickers <jbickers@ihug.co.nz> New Zealand
Sue Asscher <asschers@dingoblue.net.au> Australia
David Price <ccx074@coventry.ac.uk> England

We also have have a Director for those interested
in German Etexts, and a current special project of
translating the 1922 German edition of Siddhartha.
Please contact:
Mike Pullen <globaltraveler5565@yahoo.com>

We are VERY interested in adding other languages,
making more translations, etc.  Let me know if you
are interested!!!


Thanks!


Michael S. Hart
<hart@pobox.com>
Project Gutenberg
"Ask Dr. Internet"
Executive Director
Internet User ~#100
