From - Wed Oct 01 19:43:18 2003
Date: Wed, 01 Oct 2003 18:32:04 -0400 (EDT)
From: Alice Wood <alice at beryl dot ils dot unc dot edu>
To: Project Gutenberg Monthly Newsletter <gmonthly@listserv.unc.edu>
Subject: [gmonthly] Pt2 Project Gutenberg Monthly Newsletter Oct 2003
X-Message-Id: <200310012232.h91MW4F8016693@beryl.ils.unc.edu>
List-Owner: <mailto:owner-gmonthly@listserv.unc.edu>
List-Subscribe: <mailto:subscribe-gmonthly@listserv.unc.edu>
List-Id: Project Gutenberg Monthly Newsletter <gmonthly.listserv.unc.edu>
X-List-Host: The UNC List Server

The Project Gutenberg Monthly Newsletter 1st October 2003 Part 2
eBooks Readable By Both Humans and Computers For Since 1971

In this issue of the Project Gutenberg Monthly newsletter:

1) Editorial
2) News
3) Radio Gutenberg update
4) Mailing list information


Hello,
A roundup of this month's best and most informative articles is given
below. There are so many articles being published in the weekly
newsletter now that if I repeated them all in the monthly, you would
get a four part newsletter, so expect radical updates to the
newsletter website within the next week to allow you to read all the
things you might have missed.

Happy reading,

Alice

send email to the newsletter editor at: news@pglaf.org

Founding editor: Michael Hart hart@beryl.ils.edu
Newsletter editor: Alice Wood news@pglaf.org
Project Gutenberg CEO: Greg Newby gbnewby@pglaf.org

Project Gutenberg website: http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/
Project Gutenberg Newsletter website: http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/newsletter
Radio Gutenberg: http://www.radio-gutenberg.com
Distributed Proofreaders: http://www.pgdp.net
Newsletter and mailing list subscriptions: http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/subs.html

----------------------------------------------------------------------

============= [ SUBMIT A NEW EBOOK FOR COPYRIGHT CLEARANCE ]==============

If you have a book you would like to confirm is in the public domain in
the US, and therefore suitable for Project Gutenberg, please do the
following:

1. Check whether we have the eBook already.  Look in
	http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/GUTINDEX.ALL
which is updated weekly.  (The searchable catalog at
http://www.gutenberg.net  lags behind by several months)

2. Check the "in progress" list to see whether someone is already
working on the eBook.  Sometimes, books are listed as in progress for
years - if so, email David Price (his address is on the list) to ask
for contact information for the person working on the book.  The "in
progress" list:
	http://www.dprice48.freeserve.co.uk/GutIP.html

3. If the book seems to be a good candidate (pre-1923 publication
date, or 1923-1988 published in the US without a copyright notice),
submit scans of the title page and verso page (even if the verso is
blank) to:
	http://beryl.ils.unc.edu/copy.html

You'll hear back within a few days.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

QUICK WAYS TO MAKE A DONATION TO PROJECT GUTENBERG

A. Send a check or money order to:

Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
809 North 1500 West
Salt Lake City, UT 84116


B. Donate by credit card online

NetworkForGood:
http://www.guidestar.org/partners/networkforgood/donate.jsp?ein=64-6221541

or

PayPal to "donate@gutenberg.net":
https://www.paypal.com
/xclick/business=donate%40gutenberg.net&item_name=Donate+to+Gutenberg

Project Gutenberg's success is due to the hard work of thousands of
volunteers over more than 30 years.  Your donations make it possible
to support these volunteers, and pay our few employees to continue the
creation of free electronic texts.  We accept credit cards, checks and
money transfers from any country, in any currency.

Donations are made to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
(PGLAF).  PGLAF is approved as a charitable 501(c)(3) organization by
the US Internal Revenue Service, and has the Federal Employer Identification
Number (EIN) 64-6221541.

For more information, including several other ways to donate, go to
http://www.gutenberg.net  or email gbnewby@ils.unc.edu

----------------------------------------------------------------------

2) News

New Project Gutenberg E-Book: Nina Balatka by Anthony Trollope

(Sept 2005, E-Book #8897, nnblt10.txt/zip and nnbld10h.htm/zip)

Project Gutenberg has made available one of Anthony Trollope's most unusual 
books, Nina Balatka. The book is unusual in several respects. First, it is 
set in Prague rather than the British isles, and it does not deal with 
Trollope's usual characters, the nobility and landed gentry. Second, 
Trollope's usual witty editorial comments are absent. Third, while the book 
is ostensibly the story of two lovers, Nina Balatka and Anton Trendellsohn, 
they are already in love and engaged at the start of the novel. And finally, 
what makes this book most unusual is starkly stated in the remarkable opening 
sentence of the novel:

Nina Balatka was a maiden of Prague, born of Christian parents, and herself a 
Christian--but she loved a Jew; and this is her story.

This situation raises few eyebrows at the beginning of the 21st century, but 
it was a shocker in the highly anti-semitic culture of mid-19th century 
England. Trollope published the novel anonymously in 1866. In his 
autobiography he claims he did this to determine whether his books sold 
because of his name or because of their quality. One must suspect that the 
controversial subject matter led him to publish this book anonymously or at 
least to select it for his experiment.

The book is short by Victorian standards. Its plot deals largely with the 
obstacles to the marriage of the two lovers resulting from their religious 
differences and from the schemes of Nina's relatives. It contains one of 
Trollope's most remarkable women, Rebecca Loth, a Jewish girl (in love with 
Anton) who befriends Nina and eventually saves her life. Another wonderful 
character is Nina's Aunt Sophie, who reminds one of Mrs. Proudy, the bishop's 
wife, in Trollope's Barsetshire novels. While the book is one of his 
lesser-known works, it's powerful, relentless plot and well-drawn characters 
make it excellent reading and deserving of greater acclaim.

Those who read many of Trollope's novels are bound to wonder whether he was 
anti-semitic. Unquestionably they contain countless derogatory references to 
and descriptions of Jews. But do these references reflect Trollope's own 
views or the views of the realistic characters he created? In Nina Balatka it 
is his Christian characters who are greedy, scheming, and conniving; his 
Jewish characters for the most part act with honesty and compassion. Was this 
contrast drawn on purpose?

This edition of Nina Balatka is itself unusual in that it includes an 
introduction written specially for Project Gutenberg by Joseph E. 
Loewenstein, who scanned and prepared the E-text. In it Dr. Loewenstein 
provides background for the reader and explores the question of whether 
Trollope was anti-semitic.

Joseph Lowenstein
  
                    -------------------


Donations update from Greg Newby

Project Gutenberg runs on volunteer power.  To support our
many thousands of active volunteers, we rely on donations from
individuals and organizations.

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was formed
in 2001, in order to be the organizational home to the Project
Gutenberg effort.  Dr. Greg Newby is the CEO, with Dr. Doug Bowman
and Dr. Harry Hilton as Directors.  All are volunteers.  Paid
employees of PGLAF are Michael Hart, founder of Project Gutenberg,
Ben Stone (Michael's administrative assistant), and T. and Anne
Wingate (CTO and office managers).  Only Michael is full-time, the others
are part-time.

In addition to salaries and associated taxes and expenses,
other expenses to PGLAF include some recent scanner purchases
(we own two Fujitsu page scanners, and a large-format flatbed),
supplies for our CD/DVD giveaway, and some travel.  For example,
PGLAF paid for Greg Newby and DP founder Charles Franks to present
their paper, "Distributed Proofreading," at the Joint Conference
on Digital Libraries in Houston in May.

One of the biggest single ongoing expenses is registering as
a charity in all 50 states.  This keeps Anne Wingate busy,
and costs about $5000/year in registration fees.  We also pay
our CPA several thousand per year to prepare our audit and maintain
compliance with federal and state laws.

PGLAF has 501(c)(3) status from the US IRS, which designates it
a charitable not-for-profit.  This means that donations are tax
deductible to the extent permitted by law, and we are able to
apply for funding restricted to not-for-profits.   For continued
501(c)(3) status, PGLAF undergoes a yearly audit (the 2002-03
audit is being prepared now), and needs to maintain a proper
balance of small donations to large.

Donations to PGLAF arrive via PayPal, check, credit card, and
occasional larger gifts or grants.  PayPal donations are typically
$10-$100.  We get 10-20 per month.  Donations by check range from quite
small (just a few dollars) to several hundred dollars, again
with about 10-20 per month arriving.  In some cases, people have
used their workplace to make donations, including regular donations,
via the United Way or other institutions.  We also get a direct
bank deposit from NetworkForGood, reflecting $100-200/month in
credit card donations (until this month, we did not get date about
how many donations this reflected -- it's 5-10, so far).  Added together,
a typical month brings in anywhere from $800-$3000 in donations
of under $500, from 20-50 individuals.  This includes royalty
payments for use of the Project Gutenberg trademark (per our
"small print" in each eBook).

Complete details on donation methods are in our Donation HOWTO.
	Visit http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg

PGLAF also receives larger donations.  So far in 2003, we
received two donations of $10,000 (one from an individual, the
other from a company), and a grant of $25,000 from a foundation.
Most donations come with no strings attached (there are limitations
from the IRS on how the money may be spent, or bargained for),
but the foundation grant included a stipulation that about $2500
would be spent on an evaluation study.

PGLAF is always interested in working with potential donors, or
in approaching sources such as charitable foundations or government
agencies for funding.  Email Greg Newby <gbnewby@pglaf.org or
one of our mailing lists to talk about possibilities.  In addition,
we are open to suggestions on good things to spend our money on.
Generally, we want to get the most possible value from our budget,
and are primarily interested in investing in our volunteers to
enhance eBook production.

Greg Newby

                    -------------------

About Radio Gutenberg.

My first contact with the Gutenberg project came in or about 1984. I was 
stunned as the value and worth of the collection were indisputable, yet it 
existed in a world without price tags.

In the early 1990s, my father-in-law began to lose his vision to
macular degeneration. By 2000 he was no longer able to watch television 
or read the newspaper. Radio is now his only link to the world, outside 
of family.  

IBM came into the linux world at that point in my life, and made a 
copy of ViaVoice running the Eloquence engine available for download. 
It was Emacspeak compatible. Jon Grimm and I made a bootable CD-ROM 
and packaged it with about a hundred of the most famous and popular 
texts in the collection.

At about the same time, Jon and I began to experiment with live broadcasting 
over the internet using Icecast. We also engaged in several excursions 
introducing the Gutenberg Collection and these technologies into local 
public school systems. A while later, the financial underpinnings of the 
Gutenberg Project showed us their fraying edges, and the idea of Radio 
Gutenberg made itself apparent to me:

An interlinked network of local vendors creating the necessary materials 
for disabled access to web-based federal resources, using our "discovered" 
technology, could generate funding on a more stable footing than the existing 
Gutenberg mechanisms, and also make the collection accessable to that same 
visually impaired, illiterate and English as a second language audience.

Why this, and not something else? Self determination. Rather than choosing 
to follow a formula that would take us where we were told we should go, we 
found our own in a model that begins with who and where we are.

The first and most critical problem that had to be solved in creating audio 
books that would be useful was to create a means of production that would 
create sufficient volumes of materials to make an impact, and still preserve 
the meaning of the works to be presented in audio.   

A book is in many ways analogous to a musical score in that the words 
represent pitch sequences, and the punctuation represents phrasing - 
especially rests ( the silences).  The reading of a book, like the playing of 
music, depends first and foremost on meter.  So that is how we built the book 
editing software, to make the meter acceptable first, and then to address 
other problems in the performance.  Once an acceptable meter had been 
achieved, the audio books suffered from problems similar to those 
experienced by a human reader suffering from stroke damage.  So we had a 
speech pathologist submit our editor software to a battery of standardized 
tests.

Today our efforts are focused on accent reduction, correct pronunciation of 
French, Spanish and Native American place names, resolution of accents in 
homographs and speed.  Our ultimate goal is to create a machine that can 
audio enable the Library of Congress in one year, unattended. We have dubbed 
that machine "Deep Thought".

This quarter we are working on a new process that will allow users to create a 
desired book on demand, and follow the progress through a web-based 
"dashboard". This process will allow us to keep the hundred or so most 
popular requested audio books available for immediate download as a zip file, 
a set of .mp3 files or a CD image, with any other work in the collection 
available through "on-demand" creation. 

Over the long term, we have five major goals :

1 - More human reading style for all Gutenberg audio books.

Current activities include place name databases, homograph dictionaries 
and phrase level automatic diagramming for inflection. With these
features in place, the speech synthesizer and our automatic 
editor may achieve parity with locally available volunteer readers,
and superiority in many cases.

2 - Establishment of a broadcast network on the internet.

If we had 50 icecast broadcast servers in operation today, each hosting four 
monophonic broadcast channels, for a total of 200 channels, that would provide 
a reach similar in kind to a PBS, and provide a venue for fund raising.  

3 - Creation of new works for the collection.

When the funding mechanisms have achieved a state of equilibrium, we hope to 
fund festivals, camps and workshops that bring together young unknown talent 
for the purpose of creating new teleplays, musical compositions and
stories for distribution by Gutenberg. Bringing musicians and writers
together on a campus with facilities to produce video will allow
budding composers to try their hand at writing sound tracks, something 
unavailable anywhere today.

4 - Procurement of copyrighted works for the collection.

Our most basic activity in this vein is in securing copyright permissions for 
pre-existing works.  Our efforts are focused on the C.S. Lewis Chronicles of 
Narnia, the SciFi channel's collection of classic science fiction (one author at a 
time), Fordham University's Internet History collections and ESA/NASA materials. 

Long term we hope to garner a number of works from PhD candidates at
accessable universities, especially in chemistry, medicine and
physics. Our primary sources for these materials today include the
Michoud Shuttle External Tank Assembly Facility, NASA's Stennis Space
Flight Center, University of Maryland and University of New Orleans.

Still very preliminary and speculative, we are also attempting to
procure musical performances by the Louisiana Symphony Orchestra and a
group of graduate students at the University of Akron.

5 - Creation of Video works for the collection.

The Solar System series Jon and I have been working on for the past year or so 
began as a text only draft of the "Encyclopedia of the Solar System" 
ISBN 0-12-226805-9 major planetary chapters at opensourceschools.org.  
Since then, we have begun to separate the materials into volumes that 
address the role of the gravitational influence and state changes in the 
character of the Solar System, and feature new, original 3D videos that 
demonstrate the main features of the Solar System as we understand them today.

The first volume of this series is due to be released on December 10th as a 
DVD in the Gutenberg collection.

We are also engaged in preliminary assessments of DVD based text books on 
algebra and geometry.  These textbooks will be unique in that they use 
visualizations to demonstrate how a field project's data are typically 
collected, indexed and inferentially expanded into a summation using the 
tools of algebra and geometry.  We hope that this approach will result in the 
reader acquiring the "right" sort of curiosity in the world, when procedural 
skills are acquired because insight and intuition demand them.  In this way 
the "ethos" of a theorem or algebraic translation procedure is revealed in 
the context of a real world problem.  As a basis, we are selecting materials 
from water diversion projects here in Louisiana that intend to reclaim lost 
marshlands, and also environmental impact statements by both the EPA and 
Louisiana Wildlife and Fisheries / Louisiana Department of Natural Resources.

Long term, we hope these works establish the necessary preconditions for 
Gutenberg to become the publisher of choice for new studies of the ecology of 
North America's gulf coast.

This probably sounds like a lot for two people to pull off.  It really isn't 
in terms of the man-hours required.  And other non-profits could provide what's 
needed without spending a dime (the physical facilities are paid for and 
under-utilized). Putting it all down on paper has been a tad
disheartening, but that too is an illusion. All it takes to make this
reality is for the right people to say "OK". I hope that starts with you.

Thank you, patient reader for making it this far.  Your comments are
most welcome, especially if you decide to embark on your own new
projects in a similar vein.

Mike Eschman, Founder of Radio Gutenberg.

                    -------------------

This Issue's Quiz: Science Fiction Classics!

Match the titles with the first lines (you can always
cheat by visiting the URL).

[We have two newsletter smarty-pants awards waiting for your correct answers-Ed]

===Titles===

1. Looking Backward / Edward Bellamy
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext96/lkbak10.txt

2. The Poison Belt / Arthur Conan Coyle
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext94/poisn10.txt

3. The War of the Worlds / H.G. Wells
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext92/warw11.txt

4. The Land That Time Forgot / Edgar Rice Burroughs
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext96/tlttf11.txt

5. From the Earth to the Moon / Jules Verne
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext93/moon10.txt

6. A Princess of Mars / Edgar Rice Burroughs
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext93/pmars10.txt

7. The Time Machine / H.G. Wells
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext92/timem11.txt

8. Lost Continent / C. J. Cutcliffe Hyne
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext95/lostc10.txt

9. The Lost World / Arthur Conan Doyle
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext94/lostw10.txt

10. 20000 Leagues Under the Seas / Jules Verne
http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext01/2000010a.txt

===First Lines===

a. It is imperative that now at once, while these stupendous events
are still clear in my mind, I should set them down with that
exactness of detail which time may blur.

b. It must have been a little after three o'clock in the afternoon
that it happened--the afternoon of June 3rd, 1916.

c. I am a very old man; how old I do not know.  Possibly I am
a hundred, possibly more; but I cannot tell because I have
never aged as other men, nor do I remember any childhood.

d. Mr. Hungerton, her father, really was the most tactless person
upon earth,--a fluffy, feathery, untidy cockatoo of a man,
perfectly good-natured, but absolutely centered upon his own
silly self.

e. The Time Traveller (for so it will be convenient to speak of
him) was expounding a recondite matter to us.

f. The year 1866 was marked by a bizarre development, an unexplained
and downright inexplicable phenomenon that surely no one has forgotten.

g. I first saw the light in the city of Boston in the year 1857.

h. No one would have believed in the last years of the
nineteenth century that this world was being watched keenly
and closely by intelligences greater than man's and yet as
mortal as his own; that as men busied themselves about their
various concerns they were scrutinised and studied, perhaps
almost as narrowly as a man with a microscope might scru-
tinise the transient creatures that swarm and multiply in a
drop of water.

i. During the War of the Rebellion, a new and influential club was
established in the city of Baltimore in the State of Maryland.

j. We were both of us not a little stiff as the result of
sleeping out in the open all that night, for even in Grand Canary
the dew-fall and the comparative chill of darkness are not to be
trifled with.

                    -------------------

Other news items this week

Project Gutenberg Website Update

Thanks to Marcello Perathoner, we now have a new browse by author
and title online. The listing is regenerated at 6:50 am (US Eastern time)
to regenerate the listing daily. Our browsing tools are used quite a bit so a
more functional and prettier one is great to have. Any suggestions or
feedback about the new search facility are most welcome.

------------------------------

Lessons in ebooks

Occasionally, I get mails asking how to go about downloading texts
from Project Gutenberg. Thanks to a new set of lessons from Candida
Martinelli, all mystery is now lifted. 

Candida has put together six lessons to explain just about everything
you might need to know to get started with finding a text,
downloading, use and management, well worth a look. You can find the
lessons at:

http://home.wanadoo.nl/cecilia.mccabe/instructions.htm

------------------------------

Call to arms - The Gutenberg Bible

Guess what? My wife thinks PG has the Gutenberg Bible
online. We don't.

This _LARGE_ project will require an army of
volunteers (including me) who are willing to surf to
http://prodigi.bl.uk/gutenbg/default.asp and save the
images onto their hard-drives manually, then another
army to convert the color files to B&W so that another
army (of one) can train Abbyy Finereader to recognize
it so that we don't have to type it in (although we
_WILL_ if we have to). Then it will hit DP and go
through proofing.

An immense project but one well worth doing. They said
we couldn't/shouldn't/wouldn't, but we will.  

Won't we?

Contact garvint@yahoo.com to enlist. There are no 4Fs
in _this_ army.

Ted Garvin
----------------------------------------------------------------------

--WHERE TO GET EBOOKS

http://www.gutenberg.net allows searching by title, author, language
and subject. Mirrors (copies) of the complete collection are available
around the world.


These sites and indices are not updated instantly, as additional
research may need to be done by our professional Chief Cataloguer, so
for those who wish to obtain these new ebooks, please refer to the
following section.

--"INSTANT" ACCESS TO EBOOKS

Use your Web browser or FTP program to visit our master download
site (or a mirror) if you know the filename you want.  Try:

http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext04
or
ftp://ibiblio.org/pub/docs/books/gutenberg/etext04

and look for the first five letters of the filesname.  Note that
updated eBooks usually go in their original directory (e.g., etext99,
etext00, etc.)


----------------------------------------------------------------------

3) Radio Gutenberg Update

http://www.radio-gutenberg.com

Radio Gutenberg is currently off the air.


If you are interested in creating a slide-show with a soundtrack
from your favourite book, or piece of literature please mail us here
at news@pglaf.org and we will pass your message on.


                    -------------------

Distributed Proofreaders Update

This week's newsletter goes to press right at the start of a new
month. As October already promises to be an active and exciting month
at DP, we are going to focus on some of what's in store for the weeks
ahead of us.

First, a look back the month behind us. September started off in a
quiet manner, which was set in sharp contrast following the page
proofing marathon run to meet the monthly page objective within the
final hours of August. After that party we all needed a little Siesta,
maybe the server too. September did not finish anywhere near as quiet
as it began. Pulling together, the widely dispersed community of
proofreaders worked in a steady, dedicated fashion over the following
weeks. September saw a level of consistent high production which gave
the impression of a home-grown SlashDot event. The goal of proofed
pages for the month was met, and met well, and some impressive records
were set for DP history.

We come away from the successes of August and September with a
deepened sense of who we are and what we are capable of as a
distributed, but united community. What we each came to DP to work
upon we find empowered and increased upon itself by the strength and
support of this committed alliance. As we explore this distributed
Human network together, we are learning new things about the process
everyday, and more, we are learning about ourselves.

The name Distributed Proofreaders points up a significant aspect of
the project. DP is a network of allied individual people. The greater
share of on-line distributed projects utilize the combined power of
computer processors to take on large scale tasks. The results at DP,
while dependent upon the technology, are produced by the time, talent
and dedication of flesh and blood individuals. It is a rare
distinction among distributed projects, and worth making note of when
recognizing the accomplishments of the project.

There is no disputing the fact that the quality and output levels of
DP are on the rise. This is not a recent phenomenon, but the
cumulative result of craft and innovation that has been invested into
the endeavor from the very beginning. If I hold in mind a primary
objective for this weekly column it is to reveal and explore the
diverse craft-cultures which work to make up the finished product at
DP. Nothing happens independently within this process, the final texts
are the direct result of several stages of development. Some of these
stages have nothing directly to do with the text itself, such as the
creation of the code which runs DP and the building of the tools which
enhance and expedite the labor intensive text work. Every stage is
essential, all are interdependent. DP functions at it's best when
these diverse craft-cultures hold a unified vision and set their
intentions shoulder to shoulder. Glimpses of this dynamic force have
been shining through over the past few months with increasing regularity.

I will go on the line here and say that I believe October is going to
reveal just how unique and productive this unified creative force has become.


Within the next few days a major upgrade to the DP site will be
released. As always, this has developed and extensively tested in a
manner consistent with all work at DP. Broad participation in 'kicking
the tires,' so to speak, is not only encouraged but has long been an
essential component in the code development process. As expected,
there's still a little nervousness that we have set everything in the
correct place and squashed all the bugs we can possibly find. But
overall, we're ready for the rollout. However, there are still 48
hours or so within which you could prove to be the genius who finds
something the rest of us have missed. Checking is still underway, and
if you have not tried the testsite as yet, please do, and offer the
coding crew the benefit of 'fresh eyes.' Look for the New Release
thread at the top of the General forum.

Among the many new features, I will begin with one that is sure to be
a hit within the Project Gutenberg community:

MARC Record Search & Enhanced Project Creation Interface. Project Managers
will now be able to search the Library of Congress catalogs for MARC record 
data on their projects. From within the Project Panel, managers can create both a 
MARC record and a Dublin Core XML file for their project.

I think I can hear the PG librarians sighing already!

For the legions of proofers, Joseph Gruber has cooked up something Very Tasty:

Detailed Statistics. - DP member stat's with a history of pages
proofed, best days, neighborhood views with some info on friends and
neighbors and your own personal stat chart. The Team statistics have
been upgraded as well. There are now displays of who is on the team,
history of page count totals, best days, and more. An added search
feature has also been added to both Member and Team statistics.

Other enhancements, in no certain order, include:

Project Queue Upgrades. - The project queues have been enhanced so as
to keep more of a variety of projects available at any given
time. Site Administrators will also have more flexibility in tweaking
project status for special needs or timely events.

Inclusion of XML Icons. - There is now an enhanced visibility of our
XML/RSS feeds with icons guiding managers to their locations. (The
start of something really big here!)

Zip File Uploading of Projects.- No longer do you have to FTP over a whole 
directory of images and a whole directory of text files. Just zip the
project elements into one file, and upload directly from a hard drive.

LOCALISATION!! - (That's right, all caps.) Potentially, this is our most 
important New feature. Members will now be able to get the site in
their native language. From the initial upgrade, languages available
are German, French, Finnish & Portuguese. There is also a translation
center available for those languages not as yet represented. Please
Note... If you are willing to translate portions of DP, you will find
enthusiastic support. Just post a note in the Future Features forum
with your intention and someone will promptly reply.

Time and space does not allow to list all the many features, but I
think you get the sense of how much work the coding team has put into
this major upgrade. On the whole, many small aspects to the site have
fixed which were noted over the summer. There should be noticeably
fewer bugs and errors throughout all the stages of development. Did I
hear someone mention 'site speed?' Oh yeah! They didn't forget ya'!

Did I say October was going to be exciting?

Two other events to watch for beginning today are Post Production
objectives and Authors' Birthday celebrations. Bill Keir, DP's Site
Admin', has studied the present status of projects which are within
the final stages of post processing and verification. Bill has set for
October a Goal for completing a certain number of projects by the end
of the month. I have seen the blueprints, and I would agree that
with a well structured and cooperative effort this figure of 300 texts
posted to PG, while higher than any previous month, is a realistic
objective. To reach it though, we are going to need to draw strongly
upon that 'unified creative force' we have been tapping into recently.

Finally, on the fun side of the month, we are beginning a completely
new feature at DP. A few weeks back, Tim Bonham, the author and
maintainer of DP's Proofing Guidelines came up with an idea for
increasing interest in, and thus PG content of, authors who are either
marginally represented in Project Gutenberg or not at all. Well he
clearly hit on to something big here, because the idea has gained
strong support, and will become a regular monthly feature from October forward.

In brief, as they are now waving at me from behind the curtain (who? me?
- Ed), Authors who have a birthday within a present month will receive
'special attention' from all levels of DP. This endeavor is growing
and expanding with each day, so I will keep a small space for current
updates within each column. The limits on obscure authors seems to
have already been lifted, although underdogs will always get highest
priority. If you want to learn more, suggest ideas or become actively
involved, look for the Author Birthday threads in both General and
Content Providing forums.

One little follow up note to the Banned Books week initiative. We have
located and prepared one of the banned books not yet in PG; Gustave
Flaubert's 'The Temptation of Saint Antony.' Hint: If I were you, I'd
get to the First Round soon, it's due in at any moment now! (Okay,
I'll see what I can do to hold it back a few hours!)


That's all for now! (Well, not really, but they're already sweeping
the stage.[It's amazing what you can get horses to do these days -
Ed]) Next week we'll return to our regularly scheduled broadcast and
pick up where we left off in our explorations of the DP process:  Pre
Production and the Tools that buzz text preparation along.
For now...

All the best to everyone, and enjoy October!

Thierry Alberto
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Mailing Lists Update

Project Gutenberg Mailing Lists

The following lists are currently running and open to all:

gweekly - weekly newsletter
gmonthly - monthly newsletter
posted - instant book postings and important news(high traffic volume)
gutvol-d - volunteer discussion unmoderated (medium traffic)
gutvol-l - volunteer announcements (light traffic)
gutvol-m - multi-media list, for audio and other non-text discussion
(e.g. movies, music) (light traffic)
gutvol-p - programming volunteers, for software development (light traffic)
gutvol-w - new list for gutenberg website development (light traffic)
glibrary - library help, help in tracking down books and copyright
research (light traffic)
gutnews - the official mailing list of the Gutenberg Gazette (light traffic)
guttv - PG's attempt at world domination! No really, TV spots for PG
(very little traffic)

To find these lists you can go straight to listserv.unc.edu and look
them up individually, alternatively,
http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/subs.htm gives you links to all the
lists.

Alice
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Improved Service

In a bid to make the newsletter more helpful to readers who may be
using screen reading software. We are able to offer the booklisting in
a different format to make your life a little easier. An example of
the changed listing is given below. If you would like either a daily
or weekly version of this list please email news@pglaf.org, and state
which version you require. 

{Note to the unwary: this is an example.}

      34 NEW ETEXTS FROM PROJECT GUTENBERG US
A Complete Grammar of Esperanto, by Ivy Kellerman  Mar 2005[esperxxx.xxx]7787

The Female Gamester, by Gorges Edmond Howard       Apr 2005[fmgstxxx.xxx]7840
[Subtitle: A Tragedy]

A Primary Reader, by E. Louise Smythe              Apr 2005[preadxxx.xxx]7841
[Also posted: illustrated HTML, zipped only - pread10h.zip]

The Rise of Iskander, by Benjamin Disraeli         Apr 2005[?riskxxx.xxx]7842
[7-bit version with non-accented characters in 7risk10.txt and 7risk10.zip]
[8-bit version with accented characters in 8risk10.txt and 8risk10.zip]
[rtf version with accented characters in 8risk10r.rtf and 8risk10r.zip]
[rtf version has numbered paragraphs; txt version has no paragraph numbers]


----------------------------------------------------------------------

DISTRIBUTED PROOFREADERS NEEDS CONTENT, PROOFERS AND SCANNER TYPES

Please contact us at:

dphelp@pgdp.net

if you would like to know more about the Distributed Proofreaders.

Please visit the site:
http://www.pgdp.net for more information about how you can
help, by proofreading just a few pages per day.

 If you have a book that has been scanned, but not yet run
through OCR (optical character recognition) or proofed,
and you would like the Distributed Proofreaders to work on it,
please email dphelp@pgdp.net and we will get things started.

 Also, DP is seeking public domain books not already in the
Project Gutenberg collection.  To see what is already online,
visit http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/GUTINDEX.ALL (a text file),
since the online database doesn't reflect recent additions.

Do you have Public Domain books your would like to see in the archive?
Can they be destructively scanned? If so send them to the Distributed
Proofreading Team! Please email dphelp@pgdp.net with your geographic
location. You will be given the address of the nearest high-speed scanner
(note that the high-speed scanner requires destruction of the book(s) which
will not be returned)." Alternatively, you can send your books directly to:

Charles Franks
9030 W. Sahara Ave. #195
Las Vegas, NV 89117


Please make sure that any books you send are _not_ already in the archive
and please check them against David's In Progress list at

http://www.dprice48.freeserve.co.uk/GutIP.html

to ensure no one is currently working on them. It would also be helpful if
you obtain copyright clearance before mailing the books, and send the 'OK'
lines to

dphelp@pgdp.net

********

Do you like to work on an entire book at once but don't have the time or
technology to do the scanning, OCR, and initial proofing yourself?
Distributed Proofreaders has the perfect solution! Send email to
dphelp@pgdp.net saying that you are interested in post-processing and we
will help you find a project to work on.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

4) Mailing list information

For more information about the Project Gutenberg's mailing lists
please visit the following webpage:
http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/subs.html

Trouble?

If you are having trouble subscribing, unsubscribing or with
anything else related to the mailing lists, please email

"owner-gutnberg@listserv.unc.edu" to contact the lists'
(human) administrator.

If you would just like a little more information about Lyris
features, you can find their help information at http://www.lyris.com/help

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Credits

Thanks this time go to Brett and George for the numbers and
booklists. Tonya, Thierry, Gali, Col, Greg for the news updates,
Michael, and Larry Wall. Entertainment for the workers provided by the
Chicago Bears and the Green Bay Packers.
