The Project Gutenberg Weekly Newsletter 15th October 2003
eBooks Readable By Both Humans and Computers For Since 1971

Part 2

In this week's Project Gutenberg Weekly Newsletter:

1) Editorial
2) News
   Distributed Proofreaders Update
3) Notes and Queries, Reviews and Features
4) Mailing list information


Editorial

Hello,

Flag - check
Ticker tape - check
Bunting - check
Cake - check
Silly hats - check
Food - on order
Frosty drinks - see Thierry for those

Yes indeed, the day we have been waiting for has arrived! Which kind of
leaves me wondering what we will all do tomorrow. Anyway, a huge raft
of well done's to all involved, and please can I take a line to say a
special well done to David Widger who has today completed a year long
project to put the works of E B Lytton onto PG. I wonder what he's
planning next, probably a long rest.

Happy reading,

Alice

send email to the newsletter editor at: news@pglaf.org

Founding editor: Michael Hart hart@beryl.ils.edu
Newsletter editor: Alice Wood news@pglaf.org
Project Gutenberg CEO: Greg Newby gbnewby@pglaf.org

Project Gutenberg website: http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/
Project Gutenberg Newsletter website: http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/newsletter
Radio Gutenberg: http://www.radio-gutenberg.com
Distributed Proofreaders: http://www.pgdp.net
Newsletter and mailing list subscriptions: http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/subs.html
----------------------------------------------------------------------

============= [ SUBMIT A NEW EBOOK FOR COPYRIGHT CLEARANCE ]==============

If you have a book you would like to confirm is in the public domain in
the US, and therefore suitable for Project Gutenberg, please do the
following:

1. Check whether we have the eBook already.  Look in
	http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/GUTINDEX.ALL
which is updated weekly.  (The searchable catalog at
http://www.gutenberg.net  lags behind by several months)

2. Check the "in progress" list to see whether someone is already
working on the eBook.  Sometimes, books are listed as in progress for
years - if so, email David Price (his address is on the list) to ask
for contact information for the person working on the book.  The "in
progress" list:
	http://www.dprice48.freeserve.co.uk/GutIP.html

3. If the book seems to be a good candidate (pre-1923 publication
date, or 1923-1988 published in the US without a copyright notice),
submit scans of the title page and verso page (even if the verso is
blank) to:
	http://beryl.ils.unc.edu/copy.html

You'll hear back within a few days.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

2) News and Comment

North Dakota & New Mexico

We are again looking for people to exist in these states. Just to
remind you this is to help with PG's registered status in all fifty
states. As PG has to register separately in all 50 states we are
required to have a registered person with a real address. Now you
don't have to physically 'do' anything except give your name and
address just in case one of those people who ticks boxes for a living
happens to call, if they do, you can just refer them on the Anne or
Greg and that's it. If you think you can help, or you know someone who
can please contact me and I will pass you over to Anne.

PS Len can you mail me again to let me know if you got my reply, thank
you.

                    -------------------

Magna Carta
 
Magna Carta is often thought of as the corner-stone of liberty and the
chief defence against arbitrary and unjust rule in England. In fact it
contains few sweeping statements of principle, but is a series of
concessions wrung from the unwilling King John by his rebellious
barons in 1215. However, Magna Carta established for the first time a
very significant constitutional principle, namely that the power of
the king could be limited by a written grant.

King John's unsuccessful attempts to defend his dominions in Normandy
and much of western France led to oppressive demands on his
subjects. Taxes were extortionate; reprisals against defaulters were
ruthless, and John's administration of justice was considered
capricious. In January 1215 a group of barons demanded a charter of
liberties as a safeguard against the King's arbitrary behaviour. The
barons took up arms against John and captured London in May 1215.

By 10 June both parties met and held negotiations at Runnymede, a
meadow by the River Thames. The concessions made by King John were
outlined in a document known as the 'Articles of the Barons', to which
the King's great seal was attached, and on 19 June the barons renewed
their oaths of allegiance to the King. Meanwhile the royal chancery
produced a formal royal grant, based on the agreements reached at
Runnymede, which became known as Magna Carta (Latin for the 'Great
Charter').

Four copies of this original grant survive. Two are held at the
British Library while the others can be seen in the cathedral archives
at Lincoln and Salisbury.
 
All four copies declare themselves to have been 'given by our hand in
the meadow which is called Runnymede between Windsor and Staines on
the 15th day of June in the 17th year of our reign' (1215).

Each differs slightly in size, shape and text. The few short words and
passages written at the foot of the present document have been
incorporated into the main texts of the Lincoln and Salisbury charters
and may therefore represent last-minute revisions.

According to contemporary chronicles, copies were distributed to
bishops, sheriffs and others throughout the land, but the exact number
of copies sent out from the royal chancery in 1215 is not known.

Magna Carta is on permanent display in the British Library exhibition
galleries.

[This article taken from a very nice British Library website
www.bl.uk/collections/treasures/magna.html]

                    -------------------

Library of Congress Online: American Notes: Travels in America 1750-1920

The Library of Congress announces the release on the American Memory
website of American Notes: Travels in America, 1750-1920
(http://memory.loc.gov/ammem/lhtnhtml).

The website is comprised of 253 published narratives by Americans and
foreign visitors recounting their travels in the colonies and the
United States andtheir observations and opinions about American
peoples, places, and society from about 1750 to 1920. Also included is
the thirty-two-volume set of manuscript sources entitled Early Western
Travels, 1748-1846, published between 1904 and 1907 after diligent
compilation by the distinguished historian and secretary of the
Wisconsin Historical Society Reuben Gold Thwaites. All items are from
the general collections of the Library of Congress. Although many of
the authors represented in American Notes are not widely known, the
collection includes works by major figures such as Matthew Arnold,
Fredrika Bremer, William Cullen Bryant, Francois Rene de
Chateaubriand, William Cobbett, James Fenimore Cooper, J. Hector
St. John de Crevecoeur, Charles Dickens, Washington Irving, Benjamin
Henry Latrobe, Sir Charles Lyell, William Lyon Mackenzie, Andre
Michaux, Thomas Nuttall, Frederick Law Olmsted, and Robert Louis
Stevenson. The narratives in American Notes therefore range from the
unjustly neglected to the justly famous, and from classics of the
genre to undiscovered gems. Together, they build a mosaic portrait of
a young nation.

American Memory is a gateway to rich primary source materials relating
to the history and culture of the United States.  The site offers more
than 8 million digital items from more than 120 historical
collections.

Please submit any questions you may have via the American Memory
webform at: http://www.loc.gov/rr/askalib/ask?memory2.html

                    -------------------

Other news items this week

Spanish Bible Files

Watch out for these coming onto PG shortly. Text and HTML versions
will be available.

------------------------------

Lessons in ebooks

Occasionally, I get mails asking how to go about downloading texts
from Project Gutenberg. Thanks to a new set of lessons from Candida
Martinelli, all mystery is now lifted. 

Candida has put together six lessons to explain just about everything
you might need to know to get started with finding a text,
downloading, use and management, they are well worth a look. You can
find the lessons at:

http://home.wanadoo.nl/cecilia.mccabe/instructions.htm

                    -------------------
Distributed Proofreaders Update

[riiiiip ... crumple ... toss!]  So, there's goes my draft version for
this week's column, right at the last minute too. Just in, and
apparently official, the day we have all been waiting for and counting
down to has made a last minute sprint and arrived suddenly before our
eyes.

Project Gutenberg now provides for the world 10,000 artifacts of
literature, history, and countless varieties of the human
expression. As much as we have all looked forward to this day, it is
still surprising to be here, and more than a bit exciting.

But before I go any further into the Distributed Proofreaders view on
this historic day, there is something that needs saying. This is a
significant day for everyone who has given something of their own to
Project Gutenberg, and there are thousands of us. Yet as much as this
event may mean to each, it is hard to imagine that any of our
experiences right now are comparable to those of the person who sat
down some thirty years ago and typed the words: "When in the Course of
human Events . . ."

So...on behalf of all of us at DP ... Congratulations Michael! The
world is now vastly different from the way you found it when you
arrived.

Over at DP, the excitement has been building all month towards this
day. There is much to celebrate, for today was to be a festive event
in it's own right, before the news of re-publication of the Magna
Carta coincided with ongoing events. Joining the party at DP are three
authors celebrating this day in a  personal way. October 15th is the
birthday of the Roman poet Virgil, Friedrich Nietzsche and Helen Hunt
Jackson.

Thanks to Tim Bonham and the festivity planners at DP, Authors'
receive a new found respect and attention on their birthdays. Before
this day is through, there should be 12 new books proofed by this
trio. If one of these authors is a favorite of yours, it's not too
late to join the party and help preserve their legacies. The doors are
open all night, but hurry...it looks like a full house already. Even
the Forum attendance records have been broken today. Wherever you look
today, this evening and into the wee hours, you will find us and be
warmly welcomed.

And speaking of breaking records...the last two proofing days were a
first for 2003. No month yet in this year has seen two days with over
6,000 pages proofed. We just set away two of them, back to back. And I
have it on good authority, that we are about to do it again. See,
here's the plan, and it's so simple, it's brilliant! Once we get
enough people into the site...  I'm going to lock the doors, and
nobody leaves without proofing ten pages. Okay, maybe I need to work
on that! But however we do it, in honor of PG's 10.000 books, DP is
going to set down the best proofing day of 2003. If you think I'm over
the edge here, stop by later and have a look for yourself. At least
you'll be able to say: "I was there for the biggest day of the year!"

The fifteenth is also the midpoint of the month, a natural time to
take a breath and see what we have accomplished for October. Back on
the first we set out an objective and claimed October as 'Post
Processing Month.'  The goal was to see 300 books out of Post
Processing and into the Verification stage. Many folks laughed at
first. "You can't treat the Post process like proofing.", they
said. Plus, "There's too many variables." and "This is not something
that can be forced." To be fair, there was definitely some uncertainty
and debate before publicly announcing the goal. Still, it was agreed a
worthy endeavor and set in motion.

So, where are we now, half way down the line? As of last night,
counting 14 days out of 31, a total of 162 projects had completed the
Post stage this month, with 20 books set as finished on Monday
alone. Frankly... many of us are surprised by just how successful the
initiative has become and how contagious the support and excitement
for the effort grows with each day. I won't conjecture a guess at the
final count on the 31st, but that shouldn't stop you from enjoying the
play!

Perhaps one of the most impressive measures of the past two weeks is
offered by DP's Site Administrator, Bill Keir: "...we have almost 40
new (or newly returned to active duty) PPers so far this month - our
goal there was 50.." It is beyond doubt now, that something is
happening at DP, which has a very contagious quality. Over the past
two months there is an increase in both attendance and participation
at the site. An interesting puzzler within this phenomenon is that
while a greater share of attention than normal is upon the Post
process, the proofing numbers have not diminished at all. In fact, the
proofing counts are well on their way to producing the most successful
month of the year, if not in all of DP's history. Yes, that means we
may even see a higher monthly total than was produced by the original
SlashDot rush of November 2002. Stay tuned right here to see how this
turns out.

So we have Birthdays, impressive posted figures and amazing page
counts to celebrate... what else could possibly fit inside a single
month? Well...the new source code is still worth applause, not only
for performing impressively under all this added activity, but also
because we are still discovering new features that were folded within
it. One of these which holds our great promise for the future of DP
and thus PG is the Internationalization of the site's features. That
this is being phased in gradually does not diminish it's sparkle. As
the workings of the Localization components are tested, we will be
getting glimpses of the road out ahead of us, where DP expands to
support a wide range of languages.

The full implementation of a DP in multiple language will take some
time, but a solid effort has begun. Even for those of us native to
English, this is exciting to see come into focus. Help files and FAQs
are already being produced in a variety of languages and there is work
going on to provide multi-lingual utility and comfort to the
forums. As always, we'll be sure to follow these innovations right
here.

There are two other 'quiet' happenings going on this month that people
have been asking about for a while. I will only touch upon these
briefly this week as an introduction to more in-depth study in the
future. One is the Uber Projects designation and the other is the DP
History and Lore Archive. These two endeavors are still in the early
stages of development, but their future is bright. The Uber Projects
are large scale works which require special needs or great resources
of time and energy. As written of in previous issues, the success of
DP made the creation of a special projects division inevitable. The
power of distribution has made it possible to realistically consider
book projects which were previously out of the realm of  feasibility
for digital conversion. The recent creation of an independent forum
for the Uber Projects has brought them into the light of attention. So
by request we are going to be exploring some of these large-scale
works a little bit more with each column.

The History and Lore archive is also an item within this week's
news. I can speak freely of this because I have worked closely upon it
for several months now. It is very much what the title suggest: a home
for the story and collective knowledge of DP so far. As this project
is about the past, more or less, and not of an immediate urgency, it's
growth to date has been slow to glacial-like. This week that has
changed thanks to a generous offer by DP's own T. Mangrove, known and
adored by his friends as Montanus. The H&L Archive now has a place to
grow and prosper out of the way of the day to day affairs of book
building. Over in a quiet, little corner of the Net' those of us who
like to explore history can take our time preserving the knowledge and
record of what we do at DP, while DP goes on its way preserving the
knowledge and records of others.

So that's October from the middle of the voyage, folks! I think you
all know that I would enjoy going on about the meaning of this day for
the PG community and the journey of the road travelled to keep things
going until this day. . .but that's Michael's job...and I wouldn't
take a word of it away from him.

Rejoice in this moment, everyone! Don't let the thin air of this
cynical age steal it's gift from you. There is a great and wonderful
power at work here. The long-term effects of what we do at DP/PG each
day cannot always be measured from where we stand. I assure you that a
day will come, and it will come unexpectedly, when some rare chance
coincidence occurs in your life that brings you back through the years
to this very hour. Don't lose who you are today, and who you have
become through participating in this dream. Rejoice!...and do it with
great gladness, no matter how 'uncool' that may look to your SO. One
day ... and this I promise ... you will look back this way and say:
"I was there, that day, with Michael ... and you know something ... I
helped make it happen."

May you always find an abundant return for the part of yourself you
give to the world!

For now...

Thierry Alberto
                    -------------------

Radio Gutenberg Update

http://www.radio-gutenberg.com

Radio Gutenberg is currently off the air.


If you are interested in creating a slide-show with a soundtrack
from your favourite book, or piece of literature please mail us here
at news@pglaf.org and we will pass your message on.


----------------------------------------------------------------------

Improved Service

In a bid to make the newsletter more helpful to readers who may be
using screen reading software. We are able to offer the booklisting in
a different format to make your life a little easier. An example of
the changed listing is given below. If you would like either a daily
or weekly version of this list please email news@pglaf.org, and state
which version you require. 

{Note to the unwary: this is an example.}

      34 NEW ETEXTS FROM PROJECT GUTENBERG US
A Complete Grammar of Esperanto, by Ivy Kellerman  Mar 2005[esperxxx.xxx]7787

The Female Gamester, by Gorges Edmond Howard       Apr 2005[fmgstxxx.xxx]7840
[Subtitle: A Tragedy]

A Primary Reader, by E. Louise Smythe              Apr 2005[preadxxx.xxx]7841
[Also posted: illustrated HTML, zipped only - pread10h.zip]

The Rise of Iskander, by Benjamin Disraeli         Apr 2005[?riskxxx.xxx]7842
[7-bit version with non-accented characters in 7risk10.txt and 7risk10.zip]
[8-bit version with accented characters in 8risk10.txt and 8risk10.zip]
[rtf version with accented characters in 8risk10r.rtf and 8risk10r.zip]
[rtf version has numbered paragraphs; txt version has no paragraph numbers]


----------------------------------------------------------------------

QUICK WAYS TO MAKE A DONATION TO PROJECT GUTENBERG

A. Send a check or money order to:

Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
809 North 1500 West
Salt Lake City, UT 84116


B. Donate by credit card online

NetworkForGood:
http://www.guidestar.org/partners/networkforgood/donate.jsp?ein=64-6221541

or

PayPal to "donate@gutenberg.net":
https://www.paypal.com
/xclick/business=donate%40gutenberg.net&item_name=Donate+to+Gutenberg

Project Gutenberg's success is due to the hard work of thousands of
volunteers over more than 30 years.  Your donations make it possible
to support these volunteers, and pay our few employees to continue the
creation of free electronic texts.  We accept credit cards, checks and
money transfers from any country, in any currency.

Donations are made to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
(PGLAF).  PGLAF is approved as a charitable 501(c)(3) organization by
the US Internal Revenue Service, and has the Federal Employer Identification
Number (EIN) 64-6221541.

For more information, including several other ways to donate, go to
http://www.gutenberg.net  or email gbnewby@ils.unc.edu

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3) Notes and Queries, Reviews and Features

The Egyptian literature continued - the content and the form.

The content. 

During the writing it occurred to me, that actually the Egyptians were
the inventors of the Happy End. The eloquent peasant is winning the
case over the malicious town-dweller protected by his patron ('Tale of
eloquent peasant' can be found in Petrie 'Egyptian Tales'), the fled
nobleman is forgiven ('Story of Sinuhe') and his property is restored,
lost people are coming home and even the doomed prince is managing to
survive somehow, thanks to his beloved wife. Does it mean
simple-minding or normal confidence of the healthy and wealthy that
the gods are on your side? this is for you to decide.

What is more interesting is the overall familiarity not only of
literature genres and rules in general, but even of the very plot
lines, that were born in the minds disappeared so long ago and written
in the strange signs that nobody could read for more than 1000
years. The poor but diligent step-daughter tormented by an evil
step-mother started her miserable and glorious life almost 5000 years
ago, in 26 century B.C. during the 4th dynasty. Her 2000 years younger
relative, more famous amongst contemporary readers, was the pale Greek
slave Rhadopis of Strabo tortured by tanned Egyptian female-slaves,
who’s slipper was brought to the bored Pharaoh by the falcon-god Horus
himself. The shipwrecked sailor has found the treasure island long ago
before similar attempts of western and eastern sea-travellers. The
island disappeared in the sea-waves immediately after the sailor left,
but the scholars are seeing the traces of it in the works of Stevenson
and even in the adventures of Count Monte-Cristo, whose ship they
claim, was not incidentally called Pharaoh.

Another extremely familiar story is of two brothers Truth and
Falsehood, which tells us about the betrayal of jealous Falsehood, and
the poor Truth, blinded already by his younger brother, should be
thrown to lion by the servants. He begs for his life from the servants
and they are killing another instead of him. After many days following
this, Falsehood raised his eyes to have a look, and he observed  the
exemplariness of Truth, his elder brother. Falsehood said to Truth's
two servants: Please ab[duct] your lord and [cast] him [to] a
dangerous lion that has many lionesses [as mate]s, and they shall
[devour him. Then they] abducted him. Now as they were going up
carrying him, Truth [told his servant]s: Don't abduct [me and] put
[an]other [in my place... .  The son of blinded but still beautiful
Truth and the rich lady is defeating the wicked uncle and the beloved
Happy End comes inevitable as in Hollywood movies. Quite different
from the dismal Greek or Scandinavian epic stories when the final
scene is mostly often the violent death of the heroes, deceived and
betrayed - the standard European happy ending :).

The form.

I do not remember who told it first but I’ve heard it from many real
poets, that to make a verse is much easier than the good prose
line. This sounds for first glance strange - we are as Molier’s
personage said 'talking in prose', but the fact is that most of the
ancient literature was written in verses. Which may be compared with
the painting - the history of art was starting from the surrealism,
abstractionism and others of that ilk. May be it is easier to create
more rigid formal structure, than to imitate the over-detailed 'real'
world. Or vice-versa - the world’s perception is simpler so more
formal expression is more appropriate. In any case, Egyptian
literature is not an exception from this rule, though the tales are
very often translated in prosaic form. It is hard for us to judge the
quality of the poetry written in the dead language, however the
richness of translated metaphors is quite amazing. Below are few lines
from self-description of Mentuhotep, an official under reign of
Sessotris I. This inscription was accepted by Egyptians as an example
of good style in the Middle and New Kingdoms and was copied several
times on the stelas of different officials: I am sending two brothers
satisfied with the utterances of his mouth upon whose tongue is the
writing of Thoth, more accurate than the weight, likeness of the
balances giving attention to hear words, like a god in his hour,
excellent in heart, skilled in his fingers finding the speech of the
palace, knowing that which is in every body (heart), putting map into
his real place, finding matters in which there is irregularity, giving
the lie to him that speaks it and the truth to him that brings it, an
official loosening the knot, whom the king (lit. god) exalt above
millions master of secret things of the house of sacred
writing. Another example is quite opposite but not less poetic
inscription of Man Who Was Tired of Life: I opened my mouth to my soul
that I might answer what it had said:Behold, my name is detested,
Behold, more than the smell of vultures On a summer's day when the sky
is hot. Behold, my name is detested, Behold, more than the smell of
ducks, More than a covert of reeds full of waterfowl. Death is in my
sight today Like the smell of myrrh,Like sitting under an awning on a
windy day.Death is in my sight today Like the perfume of lotuses,Like
sitting on the shore of the Land of Drunkenness. Death is in my sight
todayLike the clearing of the sky,Like a man who... ... for something
which he does not know. Besides poetic tales, inscriptions and the
hymns to gods, the Egyptians knew and liked the songs and the short
loves poems. Those love songs were often more expressive than
metaphoric, where the tumult of love is compared with the trap for the
gooses, and the lover says that the kisses of the beloved are
invigorating the heart and her/his embraces are the best medicine With
sickness faint and weary All day in bed I'll lie; My friends will
gather near meAnd she'll with them come nigh. She'll put to shame the
doctorsWho'll ponder over me, For she alone, my loved one, Knows well
my malady. Or For those who have interest and understanding in the
technical details of poetry, here is the excerpt from
http://www.utexas.edu/utpress/excerpts/exfosanc.html For their poems
ancient Egyptian poets used a couplet form: the lines of the poems
were grouped in twos, and each pair of lines completed a verse
sentence. There were variations upon this basic form (triplets and
quatrains), but the generalization is fundamental to understanding the
structure of the poems. The verse line was clausal and syntactic: each
line consisted of either a dependent or an independent clause; and the
pair made up the full sentence. Unfortunately not many texts are in PG
yet. For those who is interested there is very good collection of the
texts on the official Egyptian government site:
http://touregypt.net/literature.htm There are also few more books of
Wallis Budge of 1901. Even if you can not find the copyright for those
things to add it to PG, at least you can enjoy reading the words
invented by the minds that disappeared long ago that were written in
the strange signs that nobody could read for more than millennium.

Gali Sirkis
                    -------------------

What's Cooking? Part 1

A recent article by Gali Sirkis highlighting the Home Economics
Archive as a possible source of material to add to PG reminded me that
several cookbooks had passed through DP recently. I decided to trawl
the depths of GUTINDEX.ALL to see just what we have in the way of
cookery manuals.

As it turns out, quite a little range of cookbooks is available via
PG. Perhaps the oldest is The Forme of Cury, by Samuel Pegge; A Roll
of Ancient English Cookery Compiled about A.D. 1390; the newest might
be The BYU Solar Cooker/Cooler, by Steven E. Jones (complete with
illustrations of said cooker/cooler), or The Perdue Chicken Cookbook,
by Mitzi Perdue. In between we can find general tomes such as Domestic
Cookery, Useful Receipts, and Hints to Young Housekeepers, by
Elizabeth E. Lea; School and Home Cooking, by Carlotta C. Greer; Miss
Parloa's New Cook Book, by Maria Parloa (new as of 1881); Things
Mother Used To Make, by Lydia Maria Gurney; and Seventy-Five Receipts
for Pastry, Cakes, and Sweetmeats, by Miss Leslie.

Several national cuisines are represented: there is a Belgian
Cookbook, and Simple Italian Cookery. We have at least one
Spanish-language cookbook (La Mejor Cocinera: Recetas de Cocina), and
one in French especially for vegetarians or those of delicate stomach
(Traite' General de la Cuisine Maigre: Potages, Entrees et Releves,
Entremets de Legumes, Sauces, Entremets sucres; Traite' des Hors
d'oeuvre et Savoureux). The latter guarantees satisfaction: "Les
estomacs auxquels, pour une raison ou pour une autre, les mets gras
sont interdits, devront une reconnaissance sans prix a l'Auteur de ce
bel et utile ouvrage. Et quant aux autres, ils pourront user des
privileges vegetariens avec profit. Ainsi, pour ceux-ci ou ceux-la,
l'avantage est constant et ne fera que des heureux."

For any one who is tired of scrambled, poached, fried, boiled, and
over-easy, we can offer Many Ways for Cooking Eggs. Those whose
cooking does not always succeed might turn to Recipes Tried and True
by Presbyterian Ladies' Aid for a foolproof idea. For a dish that's
sure to please, there is always Favorite Dishes, by Carrie
V. Shuman. (Or maybe not: see Part 2 next week to find out what I
mean....)

We do not neglect beverages. The London and Country Brewer
(publication date 1736) will instruct anyone who wishes to become
versed in "making good Malts;" "know[ing] good from bad Malts;" "the
_London_ Method of Brewing Stout, But-Beer, Pale and Brown Ales" as
opposed to "the Country or Private Way of Brewing," and much more. For
a different taste, we may turn to the fascinating The Book of Tea, by
Kakuzo Okakura, and we can even tell our fortunes afterwards with the
help of Telling Fortunes By Tea Leaves.

Finally, for those who wish to know what happens after food or drink
leaves plate or bowl and begins a lengthy journey to its final
destination, I can recommend The History of a Mouthful of Bread, by
Jean Mace--but I advise that you do not read it while you are eating.

Having whetted your appetite, I will invite you to read more about our
cookery collection next week in What's Cooking? Part 2, where we will
investigate a few of the more interesting recipes (Brain Cakes,
anyone?)

--Tonya Allen

                    -------------------

Quiz

No quiz this week, we don't want to wear you out now do we? However,
this does give you time to start swotting for the next one.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Mailing list information

For more information about the Project Gutenberg's mailing lists
please visit the following webpage:
http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/subs.html

Trouble?

If you are having trouble subscribing, unsubscribing or with
anything else related to the mailing lists, please email

"owner-gutnberg@listserv.unc.edu" to contact the lists'
(human) administrator.

If you would just like a little more information about Lyris
features, you can find their help information at http://www.lyris.com/help

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Credits

Thanks this time go to Brett and George for the numbers and
booklists. Tonya, Thierry, Gali, Greg, Michael, King John and Larry
Wall. Entertainment for the workers provided by BBC 6Music. Baseball
update from John Hagerson, who believes that the dictionary definition
of futility should be the Chicago Cubs. We would like to wish them good luck
in their deciding playoff match tonight. We also include this courtesy
of Patricia at DP.

Baseball's Sad Lexicon*
by Franklin Pierce Adams
(15nov1881-23mar1960)

These are the saddest of possible words:
  "Tinker to Evers to Chance."
Trio of bear cubs, and fleeter than birds,
  Tinker and Evers and Chance.
Ruthlessly pricking our gonfalon bubble,
  Making a Giant hit into a double--
Words that are heavy with nothing but trouble:
  "Tinker to Evers to Chance."

* The poem's original title was That Double Play Again and it
was first published in the New York Evening Mail of July 10, 1910
