The Project Gutenberg Weekly Newsletter 10th September 2003
eBooks Readable By Both Humans and Computers For Since 1971

Part 2

In this week's Project Gutenberg Weekly Newsletter:

1) Editorial
2) News
   Distributed Proofreaders Update
   Radio Gutenberg Update
3) Notes and Queries
4) Mailing list information

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Project Gutenberg is available at http://www.gutenberg.net
Webmaster is Pietro di Miceli of Rome, Italy

See below to learn how you can get INSTANT access to our eBooks via
FTP servers even before the new eBooks listed below appear in our
catalogue. The eBooks are posted throughout the week. You can even get
daily lists.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

1) Editorial

Hello,

This week I have tried to concentrate on some of the smaller projects
and suppliers of material to PG.

We continue our 'donate a dollar' campaign. If you feel that you are
able, please consider donating one dollar to Project
Gutenberg.

Happy reading,

Alice

(news@pglaf.org - If you hit reply, the mail you
send does not reach me and disappears into the ether, it's an
anti-spam measure.)

We welcome feedback and awkward questions at the address above. Please
feel free to send our general ramblings to a friend.

The Project Gutenberg Newsletter Website is available at

http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/newsletter

Any feedback about the website is most useful.


Smarty-pants award to Jon Hagerson for spotting last week's mistake
with part 1 of the newsletter, thank you Jon.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

============= [ SUBMIT A NEW EBOOK FOR COPYRIGHT CLEARANCE ]==============

If you have a book you would like to confirm is in the public domain in
the US, and therefore suitable for Project Gutenberg, please do the
following:

1. Check whether we have the eBook already.  Look in
	http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/GUTINDEX.ALL
which is updated weekly.  (The searchable catalog at
http://www.gutenberg.net  lags behind by several months)

2. Check the "in progress" list to see whether someone is already
working on the eBook.  Sometimes, books are listed as in progress for
years - if so, email David Price (his address is on the list) to ask
for contact information for the person working on the book.  The "in
progress" list:
	http://www.dprice48.freeserve.co.uk/GutIP.html

3. If the book seems to be a good candidate (pre-1923 publication
date, or 1923-1988 published in the US without a copyright notice),
submit scans of the title page and verso page (even if the verso is
blank) to:
	http://beryl.ils.unc.edu/copy.html

You'll hear back within a few days.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

2) News and Comment

Notes from Posted

We are starting a brand new rubric this week on 'Posted'. So, let us
see what was new and interesting in more than 200 messages in my email
inbox, gathered during a week's vacation! Problems with Beryl, new
titles, PG FAQ as a possible Rosetta stone, sounds promising, then
David Widger's notes about Rochefoucauld's maxims make the call for
downloading, and finally here it is - the intensive correspondence
about different ways of expanding an empire, starting with
convincing living authors to  willingly contribute their pearls into
PG's treasury. The main lines of suggestion were direct approaches to
writers, working hard on lists and contacting universities. However,
as Rose advised Alice, let's go for a moment to the opposite
direction, for it is sometimes the fastest way to fulfill the desires
of our hearts...  Everybody knows, that authors are always looking
for better promotion, so what we should do is just put a plate with
honey in an open place and all the bees will be ours. The conclusion
is obvious, the PG name should become famous. For a start the very name
should become familiar and a standard association with the e-text
file downloaded from any web-site.  

Honestly, 99% of people that I'm meeting (and they do read books) do
not have a clue what PG is and readily forget about it immediately
after being told. You can download the e-texts from various sites and
some of them using PG sources, but who knows it? The title list of the
ASCII file says something rather dull, that definitely requires to be
skipped. What about the PG logo? Somebody knows how it looks?
Shouldn't it appear near each link to an e-text with a small but bold
inscription - 'Proud Project's Gutenberg Property' (or any better wording
of your choice)? Then after making a huge effort by reformatting the
e-texts, why not connect to the original sites with a proposition
of replacing their non-proofread version by one of much better quality
from PG (of course, with the small tax of mentioning PG's name near
the link)? Connect to the e-library and PDA sites with a proposition
of cooperation, make PG a household name to be seen everywhere and
then authors will make a long line near M.Hart's email box, begging to
include their opuses in the most famous e-text collection of the world.

Gali Sirkis
                    -------------------

Other news items this week

US readers should watch out for Banned Books Week from September 20 -
27th, Sponsored by the American Library Association and the American
Booksellers Association.

Many works that have been historically censored, challenged and banned
are already on PG, a search is now on through the realms of DP to
search out some of these gems. So if you see an event at your local
library please take a look.

----------------

If you are within earshot of KQMS in Redding, CA this Saturday at 8am
Pacific Time, keep your ears peeled for the dulcet tones of Charles
Franks. Charles will be appearing to talk about DP and PG. If you hear
him, send us a review (and tell me if he speaks in dulcet tones, as
I've never heard him talk!)

----------------

A recent posting to PG by our own Jim Tinsley is the PG FAQ* as an
etext. 

----------------

Project Gutenberg is interested digitized music in all forms.  We
have a large-format scanner suitable for sheet music, and have
released musical scores in Finale and MusicXML formats.  We would
welcome MIDI, Lilypond, and other formats, as well.  Visit:
	http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/music
for our current sheet music offerings and files available for
processing.  Contemporary scores (with copyright permission) and
older musical plays would also be of interest.  As for all 
Project Gutenberg items, the first step is to get copyright
clearance (http://beryl.ils.unc.edu/copy.html).





Alice


*Welcome to 'ackronyms are us' (now there's a quiz!)
                    -------------------

New Project Gutenberg E-Book: Nina Balatka by Anthony Trollope

(Sept 2005, E-Book #8897, nnblt10.txt/zip and nnbld10h.htm/zip)

Project Gutenberg has made available one of Anthony Trollope's most unusual 
books, Nina Balatka. The book is unusual in several respects. First, it is 
set in Prague rather than the British isles, and it does not deal with 
Trollope's usual characters, the nobility and landed gentry. Second, 
Trollope's usual witty editorial comments are absent. Third, while the book 
is ostensibly the story of two lovers, Nina Balatka and Anton Trendellsohn, 
they are already in love and engaged at the start of the novel. And finally, 
what makes this book most unusual is starkly stated in the remarkable opening 
sentence of the novel:

Nina Balatka was a maiden of Prague, born of Christian parents, and herself a 
Christian--but she loved a Jew; and this is her story.

This situation raises few eyebrows at the beginning of the 21st century, but 
it was a shocker in the highly anti-semitic culture of mid-19th century 
England. Trollope published the novel anonymously in 1866. In his 
autobiography he claims he did this to determine whether his books sold 
because of his name or because of their quality. One must suspect that the 
controversial subject matter led him to publish this book anonymously or at 
least to select it for his experiment.

The book is short by Victorian standards. Its plot deals largely with the 
obstacles to the marriage of the two lovers resulting from their religious 
differences and from the schemes of Nina's relatives. It contains one of 
Trollope's most remarkable women, Rebecca Loth, a Jewish girl (in love with 
Anton) who befriends Nina and eventually saves her life. Another wonderful 
character is Nina's Aunt Sophie, who reminds one of Mrs. Proudy, the bishop's 
wife, in Trollope's Barsetshire novels. While the book is one of his 
lesser-known works, it's powerful, relentless plot and well-drawn characters 
make it excellent reading and deserving of greater acclaim.

Those who read many of Trollope's novels are bound to wonder whether he was 
anti-semitic. Unquestionably they contain countless derogatory references to 
and descriptions of Jews. But do these references reflect Trollope's own 
views or the views of the realistic characters he created? In Nina Balatka it 
is his Christian characters who are greedy, scheming, and conniving; his 
Jewish characters for the most part act with honesty and compassion. Was this 
contrast drawn on purpose?

This edition of Nina Balatka is itself unusual in that it includes an 
introduction written specially for Project Gutenberg by Joseph E. 
Loewenstein, who scanned and prepared the E-text. In it Dr. Loewenstein 
provides background for the reader and explores the question of whether 
Trollope was anti-semitic.

Joseph Lowenstein
                    -------------------

Distributed Proofreaders Update


The general purpose of this column is to explore the variety of
processes which combine to form the working matrix of Distributed
Proofreaders. This week we're going to take a slightly different view
and turn our focus to something all DP'ers share...a motive for
participating in the project. 

We all have a need for some degree of certainty in our lives. Having
something or someone we can trust and feel familiar with is satisfying
on several levels. That we find such certainty at DP is a benefit to
the project which seems unlikely to have been in the original
plans. We don't talk much in the forums about the internal, individual
experiences we each have with the project. The daily exchanges tend to
the development process and the ways of improving it. Once in a while
though, the inner life of proofers will bubble to the surface.

DP is server based. So there are times when the project is not
accessible for one reason or other. It is during such 'no access'
moments that we each realize how much DP has come to be a positive
fixture in our lives. If you have been with the project a while, you
already know some variation of this recognition.  If you have not
spent time at DP, it is well worth your effort to give it a try. What
unfolds here, beyond book making, is a true expression of those young,
'heady' dreams of what the Internet could become. 

Here is a real on-line community which spans continents, languages and
time zones, while in the process of enriching the cultural &
historical heritage of the world. Through the day to day log-in we
tend to lose sight of this grand vision, we just return without giving
it much thought, pick up whatever task we left off or just proof a few
pages. And yet, something inside us is satisfied by this act
... something innately Human.

Over the coming days our attention is going to be drawn back to the
dark events of two years ago. Whether we have personal attachments or
the mass media besieges us with images, our minds will reflect upon
how much the world has changed over that time. It is natural in this
passage to feel a deepening sense of uncertainty with many events of
significance reshaping the world that was once familiar to us.

At such times as this, the subtle strengths of the Distributed
Proofreading project can provide a base of 'solid ground' when no
other seems available to us. At DP we can always drink of some
certainties; we know there is a place in the world where our time
and energy can be positively invested; we know we will always find a
familiar circle of like-minded people who care about similar issues
and values to our own, and should we ever voice a need to this circle,
they will come to our side and stand together with
us. Ask, and you will see this. I have, and it is true.

Perhaps the greatest gift that DP offers an individual is the
certainty that they can make a difference in the world. It may seem a
small contribution on a daily measure, but every page makes a real
difference.  Like a single stone within a wall, unnoticed to a passer-by,
yet essential to the support of a cathedral, so are the individual
pages at DP to the World Library of PG's vision. There is something
within each proofer, however unconscious, that realizes this truth. In
these uncertain times, that's one of the payments in gold that
inspires our motivation to keep coming back.

In the next issue we'll return to the beaten path and explore the two
stages of the Post Production process, where texts are re-assembled
and readied for their debut in the Project Gutenberg stacks.

Until then, may this week be fair, and lead you closer to your dreams!

Thierry
                    -------------------

Radio Gutenberg Update

http://www.radio-gutenberg.com

This week RG is running AEsop's Fables on channel 1 and The Lion, the
Witch and the Wardrobe by C.S. Lewis on channel 2.


If you are interested in which etexts and authors have been turned
into audio ebooks, a list can now be found on the Radio Gutenberg website.


If you are interested in creating a slide-show with a soundtrack
from your favourite book, or piece of literature please mail us here
at news@pglaf.org and we will pass your message on.


----------------------------------------------------------------------

Improved Service

In a bid to make the newsletter more helpful to readers who may be
using screen reading software. We are able to offer the booklisting in
a different format to make your life a little easier. An example of
the changed listing is given below. If you would like either a daily
or weekly version of this list please email news@pglaf.org, and state
which version you require. 

{Note to the unwary: this is an example.}

      34 NEW ETEXTS FROM PROJECT GUTENBERG US
A Complete Grammar of Esperanto, by Ivy Kellerman  Mar 2005[esperxxx.xxx]7787

The Female Gamester, by Gorges Edmond Howard       Apr 2005[fmgstxxx.xxx]7840
[Subtitle: A Tragedy]

A Primary Reader, by E. Louise Smythe              Apr 2005[preadxxx.xxx]7841
[Also posted: illustrated HTML, zipped only - pread10h.zip]

The Rise of Iskander, by Benjamin Disraeli         Apr 2005[?riskxxx.xxx]7842
[7-bit version with non-accented characters in 7risk10.txt and 7risk10.zip]
[8-bit version with accented characters in 8risk10.txt and 8risk10.zip]
[rtf version with accented characters in 8risk10r.rtf and 8risk10r.zip]
[rtf version has numbered paragraphs; txt version has no paragraph numbers]


----------------------------------------------------------------------

QUICK WAYS TO MAKE A DONATION TO PROJECT GUTENBERG

A. Send a check or money order to:

Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
809 North 1500 West
Salt Lake City, UT 84116


B. Donate by credit card online

NetworkForGood:
http://www.guidestar.org/partners/networkforgood/donate.jsp?ein=64-6221541

or

PayPal to "donate@gutenberg.net":
https://www.paypal.com
/xclick/business=donate%40gutenberg.net&item_name=Donate+to+Gutenberg

Project Gutenberg's success is due to the hard work of thousands of
volunteers over more than 30 years.  Your donations make it possible
to support these volunteers, and pay our few employees to continue the
creation of free electronic texts.  We accept credit cards, checks and
money transfers from any country, in any currency.

Donations are made to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
(PGLAF).  PGLAF is approved as a charitable 501(c)(3) organization by
the US Internal Revenue Service, and has the Federal Employer Identification
Number (EIN) 64-6221541.

For more information, including several other ways to donate, go to
http://www.gutenberg.net  or email gbnewby@ils.unc.edu

----------------------------------------------------------------------

3) Notes and Queries, Reviews and Features

The name: NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

[For the foreigners like the author of these notes, that never
succeeded to pronounce this complicated name correctly:
Pronunciation: http://www.bartleby.com/61/wavs/11/H0091100.wav
# hô´thôrn´´ from http://www.bartleby.com/61/13/H0091300.html" The
American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth
Edition. Copyright© 2000 by Houghton Mifflin Company.]

The brief biography:

From all available internet resources Nathaniel Hathorne (who later
became Nathaniel Hawthorn) was born exactly 28 years after signing of
the famous declaration, on 4th July, 1804, in Salem, Massachusetts,
famous by its bloody (by all means) witchcraft trials
(http://www.law.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/salem/SALEM.HTM) in
17th century. Interesting that Hathorne family could trace its history
as far back as 1692, when one of his predecessors John Hathorne was
actually the judge on such a trial and naturally was many times cursed
by poor convicteds. So N.H. later in his life tried to resolve this
uncomfortable fact in his 'The House of the Seven Gables' where the
marriage between successors of the cursed and cursing remitted the
unsettled punishment.
In the times covered by N.H. biography, Hathorns went to the more
romantic side of life, and the Nathaniel Hathorn-senior was a sea
captain. In the year 1808, in the warm waters of Atlantic Ocean near
Surinam, the brave captain gave up to yellow fever and died, leaving
Nathaniel junior and his sisters Elizabeth and Louise to their mother,
Elizabeth Clarke Manning Hathorne. 
In the year 1820 N.H. went to Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine. As
it read in one of the biographies 'The curriculum focused on the
classics and on religion'. As far as I understood, though, the
curriculum of N.H. was mainly focused on the having good time with his
friends and on trying to avoid suspension due to the above. As most of
us, he finally was not suspended and succeeded to graduate after 5
years and came back to the his family, which at this time moved back to Salem. 

Intermezzo about humane race:
During the years of study in Bowdoin College, he was befriended by
three gentlemen, one named Henry Longfellow, another Franklin Pierce
and the third one Horatio Bridge. Among their classmates there were
also George B. Cheerer and John S. C. Abbott. It reminded me of
another similar gang of college friends - Luis Bunuel, Frederico
Garcia Lorka and Salvador Dali. This observation is as old as the
world itself, but it still puzzles me. Seems that the humans are
packed in special boxes, so each time another box is opened and the
tireless flock of storks brings to the world bunches of people made
from same ingredients with an embedded attraction force, which brings
them together from different countries to the same colleges, hight
schools and kindergardens. Or may be it is somehow connected to some
global pattern of geothermal or solar activity?

The future biography of Hawthorn is very well described in many links
(see below), so here is the only brief description of it. However one
interesting excursion in his life is probably worth mentioning here;
in 1841, he joined the Brook Farm venture, 
(http://www.bartleby.com/65/br/BrookFar.html) for an year and half,
got extremely disappointed and came back to Salem in 1842, where he
immediately married Sophia (after JOHN ERSKINE
http://www.bartleby.com/226/index.html#2 ). So the Utopian experience
started in his notesbooks as  'Here I am in a polar Paradise!',
evolved through 'It is an endless surprise to me how much work there
is to be done in the world; but, thank God, I am able to do my share
of it,--and my ability increases daily. What a great,
broad-shouldered, elephantine personage I shall become by and by!..'
to the Oh, labour is the curse of the world, and nobody can meddle
with it without becoming proportionably brutalised! Is it a
praiseworthy matter that I have spent five golden months in providing
food for cows and horses? It is not so'.

Besides this and few years spent in Boston and Concord, he stayed
mainly in Salem until 1950. He wrote most of his works, met the love
of his life Sophia Peabody, married her, made several kids and
switched different jobs. Then after loosing the last one - Surveyor of the
Port in Salem arranged for him by his friend Horatio, and the death of
his mother soon after, he decided to leave the Salem which he called
"that abominable city," and never to return there. So he fullfilled
this decision and spent rest of his days outside his hometown, partly
in Liverpool, England, where he assumed position of Consul.He died in
his sleep on May 18, 1864 in Pemigewasset House in Plymouth. 

From the internet:
The full bibliography:
http://www.eldritchpress.org/nh/nhwrit.html 
The http://guweb2.gonzaga.edu/faculty/campbell/enl311/hawthor.htm is a
good page for related links. Amongst other pages (and there are as
many as 111,000 others!) http://www.hawthorneinsalem.org/  is highly
recommended, for it's less formal air,  absence of annoying ads and
the most comprehensive biography accompanied with various documents
and references.

N.H. possess as much as 26 entries (27069 to 27095 ) from the Columbia
World of Quotations.

Gali Sirkis
                    -------------------

The uncollected texts of Pauline Johnson.

E. Pauline Johnson was a poet, a gripping performer, a patriotic
Canadian, a proud half-Mohawk, a canoeing enthusiast, and a bohemian
spirit. I first became aware of her name when browsing through listings
of Project Gutenberg. Since then, I've read a great deal about this
fascinating woman and helped to include all her material published in
book form in Project Gutenberg.

Her books of stories were all collections of material she had already
published in various newspapers and magazines. For a while the idea had
been floating around in my head to put together for Project Gutenberg
articles she had written that had not been collected anywhere else.

Over the last ten years, there has been a growing scholarly interest in
Johnson; a recently published book about her includes a comprehensive
appendix listing around 250 poems, articles and stories published in a
wide variety of sources mostly from the period of 1890-1913. This was
my starting point.

But I've found good challenges along the way. From learning how to use
microfilm to looking for items that have been mis-catalogued, my
research skills have definitely been improved. Also, as I'm mostly
dealing with photocopies made from microfilm, the quality it not good
enough to use OCR, so I'm typing everything out by hand.

Part of what I find appealing in this little project is that I can take
material which is not easily accessible and has never been gathered all
together in one place before and make it freely available through PG.

Anyone who wants to see the results of what I've done so far can take a
look at http://www.victoria.tc.ca/~sly/epj/index.htm
Most of the stories there are not proofed yet, and anyone interested
in helping with that would be welcome.

Andrew Sly
                    -------------------

Quiz

The theme of this one is children's books:

1. Anne of Green Gables etext92/anne11.txt

2. The Wonderful Wizard of Oz etext93/wizoz10.txt

3. The Secret Garden etext94/gardn11.txt

4. A Little Princess etext94/lprss11.txt

5. Five Children and It etext97/fivit10.txt

6. The Princess and the Goblin etext96/prgob10.txt

7. The Jungle Book etext95/jnglb10.txt

8. Black Beauty etext95/bbeau10.txt

9. The Wind in the Willows etext95/wwill10.txt

--------------------------------------------

a. Once on a dark winter's day, when the yellow fog hung so thick
and heavy in the streets of London that the lamps were lighted
and the shop windows blazed with gas as they do at night, an odd-
looking little girl sat in a cab with her father and was driven
rather slowly through the big thoroughfares.

b. It was seven o'clock of a very warm evening in the Seeonee hills
when Father Wolf woke up from his day's rest, scratched himself,
yawned, and spread out his paws one after the other to get rid of
the sleepy feeling in their tips.

c. Mrs. Rachel Lynde lived just where the Avonlea main
road dipped down into a little hollow, fringed with alders
and ladies' eardrops and traversed by a brook that had its
source away back in the woods of the old Cuthbert place.

d. When Mary Lennox was sent to Misselthwaite Manor
to live with her uncle everybody said she was the most
disagreeable-looking child ever seen.

e. The Mole had been working very hard all the morning, spring-
cleaning his little home.

f. Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with
Uncle Henry, who was a farmer, and Aunt Em, who was the farmer's
wife.

g. The house was three miles from the station, but before the dusty
hired fly had rattled along for five minutes the children began to
put their heads out of the carriage window and to say, 'Aren't we
nearly there?'

h. There was once a little princess whose father was king over a great
country full of mountains and valleys.

i. The first place that I can well remember was a large pleasant
meadow with a pond of clear water in it.

No prizes as ever, except free ebooks, anyone to send in a correct set
of answers gets the Newsletter smarty-pants award.

Thanks to Tonya Allen, quizmaster!
                    -------------------

Project Gutenberg Mailing Lists

The following lists are currently running and open to all:

gweekly - weekly newsletter
gmonthly - monthly newsletter
posted - instant book postings and important news(high traffic volume)
gutvol-d - volunteer discussion unmoderated (medium traffic)
gutvol-l - volunteer announcements (light traffic)
gutvol-m - multi-media list, for audio and other non-text discussion
(e.g. movies, music) (light traffic)
gutvol-p - programming volunteers, for software development (light traffic)
gutvol-w - new list for gutenberg website development (light traffic)
glibrary - library help, help in tracking down books and copyright
research (light traffic)
gutnews - the official mailing list of the Gutenberg Gazette (light traffic)
guttv - PG's attempt at world domination! No really, TV spots for PG
(very little traffic)

To find these lists you can go straight to listserv.unc.edu and look
them up individually, alternatively,
http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/subs.htm gives you links to all the
lists.

Alice
----------------------------------------------------------------------

--WHERE TO GET EBOOKS

http://www.gutenberg.net allows searching by title, author, language
and subject. Mirrors (copies) of the complete collection are available
around the world.


These sites and indices are not updated instantly, as additional
research may need to be done by our professional Chief Cataloguer, so
for those who wish to obtain these new ebooks, please refer to the
following section.

--"INSTANT" ACCESS TO EBOOKS

Use your Web browser or FTP program to visit our master download
site (or a mirror) if you know the filename you want.  Try:

http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext04
or
ftp://ibiblio.org/pub/docs/books/gutenberg/etext04

and look for the first five letters of the filesname.  Note that
updated eBooks usually go in their original directory (e.g., etext99,
etext00, etc.)


----------------------------------------------------------------------

DISTRIBUTED PROOFREADERS NEEDS CONTENT, PROOFERS AND SCANNER TYPES

Please contact us at:

dphelp@pgdp.net

if you would like to know more about the Distributed Proofreaders.

Please visit the site:
http://www.pgdp.net for more information about how you can
help, by proofreading just a few pages per day.

 If you have a book that has been scanned, but not yet run
through OCR (optical character recognition) or proofed,
and you would like the Distributed Proofreaders to work on it,
please email dphelp@pgdp.net and we will get things started.

 Also, DP is seeking public domain books not already in the
Project Gutenberg collection.  To see what is already online,
visit http://ibiblio.org/gutenberg/GUTINDEX.ALL (a text file),
since the online database doesn't reflect recent additions.

Do you have Public Domain books your would like to see in the archive?
Can they be destructively scanned? If so send them to the Distributed
Proofreading Team! Please email dphelp@pgdp.net with your geographic
location. You will be given the address of the nearest high-speed scanner
(note that the high-speed scanner requires destruction of the book(s) which
will not be returned)." Alternatively, you can send your books directly to:

Charles Franks
9030 W. Sahara Ave. #195
Las Vegas, NV 89117


Please make sure that any books you send are _not_ already in the archive
and please check them against David's In Progress list at

http://www.dprice48.freeserve.co.uk/GutIP.html

to ensure no one is currently working on them. It would also be helpful if
you obtain copyright clearance before mailing the books, and send the 'OK'
lines to

dphelp@pgdp.net

********

Do you like to work on an entire book at once but don't have the time or
technology to do the scanning, OCR, and initial proofing yourself?
Distributed Proofreaders has the perfect solution! Send email to
dphelp@pgdp.net saying that you are interested in post-processing and we
will help you find a project to work on.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Mailing list information

For more information about the Project Gutenberg's mailing lists
please visit the following webpage:
http://gutenberg.net/subs.html

Archives and personal settings:

The Lyris Web interface has an easy way to browse past mailing list
contents, and change some personal settings.  Visit
http://listserv.unc.edu and select one of the Project Gutenberg lists.

Trouble?

If you are having trouble subscribing, unsubscribing or with
anything else related to the mailing lists, please email

"owner-gutenberg@listserv.unc.edu" to contact the lists'
(human) administrator.

If you would just like a little more information about Lyris
features, you can find their help information at http://www.lyris.com/help

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Credits

Thanks this time go to Brett and George for the numbers and
booklists. Thierry, Gali, Cheryl and Michael, Tonya, Greg,
Michael, and Larry Wall. Entertainment for the workers provided by
Andrew Collins, Tom Robinson (yes, that one), John Madden and Al
Michaels, Riverdance, Queen and Bruce Springsteen.

Penalty is declined, first down!
