Date:         Mon, 16 Dec 1991 10:56:44 CST
Sender:       Machine Readable Texts Email List <GUTNBERG@UIUCVMD.BITNET>
From:         "Michael S. Hart" <HART@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu>
Subject:      12/91 Non-network Gutenberg Newsletter
To:           "Michael S. Hart" <HART@UIUCVMD.BITNET>

Special Non-Network Edition of the Project Gutenberg Newsletter

Our #1 goal:  give away one trillion etexts by the end of 2001,
by giving ten thousand etexts to one hundred million people.

#2:  To make these etexts universally usable on virtually every
combination of computers and programs.  (Plain Ascii etext such
as you are reading now is the only way we know of, so far.)

#3:  the founding of a Public Domain Register in 1997, on 100th
anniversary of the founding of the U.S. Copyright Register.  **

December, 1991  (Thanks for your patience as we adapt for mail,
as opposed to our usual format of electronic mail.  We can't do
the same newsletter for both, as most of the e-mail newsletters
deal with electronic transmission of our books.)  The first few
paper newsletters may look a little odd, as we are cutting from
our email newsletter and pasting here, and some items may be in
here twice, etc. * Michael S. Hart, Director, Project Gutenberg

This month's release is Roget's Thesaurus (roget11x.txt or zip)
Last month's release was Aesop's Fables   (aesop11x.txt or zip)
A full listing of the 12 monthly Project Gutenberg releases for
1991 has been appended to the end of this newsletter.  Alice28,
aesop11, and roget11 are now becoming available.  Alice28 is an
upgrade of significance with many spelling, punctuation, even a
few missing line, errors having been corrected.

You may see some very similar etexts for sale on CDROM or disks
for well over $100, the CIA World Factbook for example is being
sold on CDROM for prices ranging from over $50 to over $125 (is
available in our edition as file world11).

Thank you for your interest in our work.  We hope you will feel
you can cooperate and assist.  One of the best ways you can for
the present is to relay the newsletters and disks for others to
use.  That way we won't get as swamped with mail requests as we
already are.  Please give our disks and newsletters to computer
clubs and libraries whenever you can.  We find more and more of
the libraries are willing to add our electronic book collection
to their paper book collection.  If they are very worried about
viruses and things like that, remind them that our files aren't
programs, but only English words, and thus cannot contain virus
programs of any nature.

Most of our work is done via network communications or via hand
to hand swapping of disks.  Long distance paper or disk mailing
has not been our strong suit in the past, but we make an effort
to get electronic books into the hands of all who desire them.

A great advantage of the computer networks is that we only post
a book once and a million people can make their own copies very
easily and quickly.  What we ask of you is to do the same sorts
of things as a human networking systems so we can get our books
out there to everyone without having to send individual copies.
Therefore we ask you to help others make copies of newsletters,
books, Shareware text reading programs, etc.  Even if every one
of the letters we get contained a large donation, we would lose
time and effort from the process of making the books because we
would be spending that time and effort in mailing.  We have not
wanted to become a large impersonal operation, so far all these
letters and requests have been answered and handled by myself--
with assistance from friends all around the world.  I hope this
will continue, and you will never have to get a letter typed by
a secretary.  If you can get our newsletter and books into more
hands, then you will help us in this manner.  Please encourage,
assist, and otherwise promote your local computer BBS, network,
or whatever to help keep us from getting swamped.  We don't get
our satisfaction from distributing the books directly, we would
never be able to do it directly without becoming a corporation,
and a large one at that.  We hope you will be the ones to see a
light in the eyes of the people you give your favorite book to.

We have not refused files to anyone who asked but we must try a
bit to get stamps, disks and handling paid for.  So far we have
done quite well in this area with no one donating less than $10
for us sending them a disk.  No one has ever sent us a cent for
the books they get over the networks, but our network connected
work is paid for by outside sources, so we break even there.  A
computer distribution network is very easy to run.

However, one of our biggest problems is the time and expense of
dealing with paper mail.  If you could send stamps and labels a
great deal of this time and expense could be eliminated.  It is
cheaper for your to send stamps and labels than the SASLE's.  L
is for legal/business sized envelopes, as it is hard to put the
whole newsletters into smaller envelopes.  You might spend more
in mailing us disks and envelopes than it would cost otherwise,
as we buy disks in mass quantities and we wouldn't want to have
to have you pay for mailing things in both directions.

One of the greatest problems we have is that people send us $10
or more for etexts without telling us what kind of disk to send
them.  Please be as specific as you can as follows:

This is a special letter I am writing to those with whom we are
communicating via regular mail rather than via electronic mail,
or email (e-mail), as we call it.

In our newsletter, which is normally distributed to some 10,000
people on the various computer networks and services (Internet,
Bitnet, CompuServe, etc.) we usually refer to instructions to a
network listserver and fileserver for getting mail and books or
sending them in to us.  The same things are available through a
letter or by mailing a disk.  Please remember to specify what a
disk is formatted for. . .whether you are sending it to us as a
book for our collection or whether you are requesting one.  Our
volunteers can read or make disks in nearly any format, but you
have to tell us what kind.  Example:  the most common disks are
IBM 360K.  That alone is enough to tell us what we need, but if
you would like to add 5 1/4" or 9 sector or any other pieces of
information about your disks to insure compatibility, please do
so.  Our most common formats are:
IBM 360K, 1.2M, 720K, 1.44M.
    DSDD,  HD   DSDD   HD    DSDD=Double Sided Double Density
    5.25" 5.25" 3.5"  3.5"    HD = High Density
    Frequently the 1.44M 3.5 inch disks say 2M,
    that is unformatted size, you get to use 1.44 Megabytes.

Mac 800K and high density (not usually called by size, but they
    hold twice as much as the 800K)

On request we will try to make disks for Apples, Ataris, Amigas
and even the new 2.88M sized 3.5" disks.  If this is too much a
burden to think about, you can describe your computer to us and
we will be able to make a good guess as to what kind of disk is
right for that computer.  Please also call your dealer to get a
better idea of what kind of disk you need.

If you can find a local computer club, network or BBS (Bulletin
Board Service) they can assist you in getting the books into an
etext or disk format suitable for your own private use.  One of
the great advantages of our network distribution is that when a
text is copied from a network to your computer, it is automatic
that it appears in the proper disk format for your computer.  A
modem copying from another computer does the same thing.
We are somewhat reluctant to cash the checks people send in, if
we don't know what kind of disks to send them.  Remember you do
not buy our books, they are free.  The donations are to Project
Gutenberg/Illinois Benedictine College (You may abbreviate IBC)
and since they will be going to the college funds, they will be
tax deductible.  If you can get the books via network or modem,
please do so, as we are not prepared for mass mailings of disks
or the purchase of stamps.  Nevertheless, we want everyone from
everywhere to be able to get our books so please don't hesitate
to send us a self-addressed stamped disk mailer and a donation,
you will get your disks and will be encouraged to share them in
any manner you can.  Some people put them in public libraries.

Please send to:
Project Gutenberg
405  West Elm St.
Urbana, IL  61801

You are most thoroughly invited to proofread our books while in
the process of using them.  Your suggestions will be checked on
during the creation of our next edition of that book.  Etext is
very easy to edit, and you may be happy to hear that we will be
soon releasing the 28th edition of Alice in Wonderland due to a
continuing interest in helping us creating the best editions.

 A Partial History of Project Gutenberg Releases
 (and from other related and unrelated sources)
1971 The U.S. Declaration          (whenxxxx.xxx)
1972 The Bill of Rights            (rightsxx.xxx)
1973 The U.S. Constitution         (constxxx.xxx)
197x The Complete Shakespeare*     ( unreleased )
( Due to chnages in copyright law )
198x The Bible (various eds)       (biblexxx.xxx)
1975 Paradise Lost (Joseph Raben)  ( unreleased )
198x Early Alice in Wonderland     (alicexxx.xxx)
198x Early Looking-Glass           (lglassxx.xxx)

This is the index of 1991 Project Gutenberg books
as of December 15, 1991.  If you already have any
copies of Alice or Roget, then we suggest you get
the new copy from this list as they have been put
through a significant improvement process.  A new
copy of each of these files will be posted as the
1992 editions, not all with major revisions.


Jan 1991 Alice in Wonderland       (alice28x.xxx)
Feb 1991 Through the Looking Glass (lglass15.xxx)
Mar 1991 The Hunting of the Snark  (snark11x.xxx)
Apr 1991 The CIA World Factbook    (world11x.xxx)
May 1991 Moby Dick (From OBI)      (mobyxxxx.xxx)
Jun 1991 Peter Pan (for US only)   (peter14a.xxx)
Jul 1991 The Book of Mormon**      (mormon11.xxx)
Aug 1991 The Federalist Papers+    (feder11x.xxx)
Sep 1991 The Song of Hiawatha+     (hisong10.xxx)
Oct 1991 Paradise Lost (Boss)      (plboss10.xxx)
Nov 1991 Aesop's Fables            (aesop11x.xxx)
Dec 1991 Roget's Thesaurus         (roget11x.xxx)

**, +, etc. indicate notes in our newsletters.
Numbers after titles indicate current releases,
the newest not available at all sites at present.
Get the highest number you can find.  When two
releases are available, that means the newer one
has just been posted for testing.  Please let us
know how this file worked for you.

* We currently recommend Shakespeare of Disk, and
request you call 1-800-446-2089, ask for Niloufer
or Sam Reifler, and please tell them you heard of
their work through Project Gutenberg.  Ask for an
electronic text license for an entire school, all
students present and future included.  Staff will
not be included, however.  Also recommended is an
etext CD called Library of the Future.  You might
call Valerie Hustwit at 1-800-443-0238; Grolier's
Encyclopedia is on CD, call 1-800-356-5590.***End

** Donated by Infobases (801) 375-7371, call them
   more Mormon etexts at inexpensive prices.  Ask
   for Paul Allen and please mention you heard of
   their work through Project Gutenberg.

+  Was prepared and released by user request.

Various editions of these early releases are in
circulation, many of them unrecognizable due to
editing, markup, and other changes.  These were
not labeled as from any source, but were freely
posted for Internet and BBS access.  Others are
still in the process of being assigned to legal
status for Public Domain release or permissions
for various kinds of distribution, and thus are
not being listed.

Long Range Projects
(some now completed, some in progress, some not started)

Paradise Lost (Raben)     (2plostxx.xxx)
Britannica 11th Edition
Merriam-Webster's International Dictionary
The Century Dictionary
A New Dictionary Based of the English Language
  Based on Historical Priciples by Murray
(Currently named after a large English university)
All major religious documents
Plus the Magna Carta (Freenet)
Mark Twain, collected works
Jules Verne, collected works
Shakespeare (a new edition for Public Domain)
A. Conan Doyle (most of Sherlock Holmes, etc)
Wuthering Heights         (wutherxx.xxx)
From the Earth to the Moon(ttmoonxx.xxx)
Pride and Prejudice       (pridexxx.xxx)
Origin of Species (spare) (darwinxx.xxx)
Grimms' Fairy Tales       (grimmxxx.xxx)
Buddha                    (buddhaxx.xxx)
Far From the Madding Crowd(crowdxxx.xxx)
Civil Disobedience        (civildxx.xxx)
The War of the Worlds     (wotwxxxx.xxx)
The Time Machine          (tmachxxx.xxx)
The Brick Moon            (bmoonxxx.xxx)
Einstein's Moving Bodies  (1einstxx.xxx)
Sir Walter Scott

=====================================================
|       The trend of library policy is clearly toward
|       the ideal of making all information available
|       without delay to all people.
|
|The Software Toolworks Illustrated Encyclopedia (TM)
|(c) 1990 Grolier Electronic Publishing, Inc.

Thank you for your interest,

Michael S. Hart, Director, Project Gutenberg
National Clearinghouse for Machine Readable Texts

The views expressed herein do not necessarily reflect
the views of any person or institution.  Neither Prof
Hart nor Project Gutenberg have any official contacts
with the University of Illinois.

Mail will be considered for release in our newsletter
and notes unless otherwise requested.

Email addresses:
BITNET> HART@UIUCVMD  INTERNET> HART@VMD.CSO.UIUC.EDU
Also as the Usenet group bit.listserv.gutnberg
CompuServe:  >INTERNET:hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
Attmail:  internet!vmd.cso.uiuc.edu!HART



