From hart at pglaf.org  Wed Nov 22 08:44:40 2006
From: hart at pglaf.org (Michael Hart)
Date: Wed Nov 22 08:44:43 2006
Subject: [gweekly] PG Newsletter Troubles Today!! New Editors Welcome Now!!
Message-ID: <Pine.LNX.4.60.0611220823400.18336@pglaf.org>


My email connection is SO bad right now that I can't edit
much of anything online, so I may not get ALL statistics,
reviews, etc. up to date by the deadline, and may have to
send out a further revised copy later on.  Sorry, but the
lag is minutes to see what I have typed, so I am doing it
all locally, then cutting and pasting the revised parts--
then waiting literally minutes to see what happened.

Don't be surprised if it takes a day or two for this odds
and ends approach to get through to you, as I have made a
piligrimage to another site to get a better connection to
do this, and the results are staggeringly bad.  I had too
many minutes of retrying just to get this connection from
the new spot to count, and so I know it's not just a very
bad connection from my house.  In fact, looking at counts
of characters coming in and out here I don't ever think I
will be able to send anything but the most rudmentary for
the period until this clears up.  BTW, testing from Newby
says everything is working well from his end but I assure
you it is not multiple ends here.

My apologies, this will be the first time I have not sent
an entire Project Gutenberg Newsletter when scheduled to.

This might be a GREAT time for our new Newsletter editor!

At the moment it appears we already have over one hundred
new eBooks this week, which will put us over 22,000!!!

However, I will not be able to integrate this total in an
electronic format to send you, since I can't up/down/load
the entire Newsletter under these conditions, or rewrite,
as I usually do, so this may be it for right now.  I will
try again tomorrow, of course, but it's been getting bad,
moreso each day, so don't hold your breath.

Again my apologies, even my normal backdoor approach will
not help if the trouble is further up the line, which has
been what it appears to be as this new site location will
not give me any better service.

Michael S. Hart
Founder
Project Gutenberg
